Dorking bother his voyage almost over ; -the ﻿ wedge i n ] X ﻿
in the morning at the crude hour of sit , though we do n't hive to go
until considerable later . But , previously , there will be Memlings
diggings and yelling from five on so that sleep will be wood in V The Voyage has been a good one as voyages go . This steamer is very and most remarkably steady ; the service is excellent , filling end il courteous ; and as for the Tables you could stuff until you burst if : were so disposed . The menus have included everything the plain Anne ) has been used to from infancy , as well as everything you never Henry
from `` criticise '' to `` constant with dilled cucumber . ''
After you bade us goodbye that day , which seems so long ago , we rest to our sumptuous stateroom to find it filling up with ﻿ '' suits of arm boxes of flower , letters , telegrams and books from many of those to whom we have endeared ourselves . One wondrous basket Was from else and Wallace , and n box of carpenters us big as passages with see a yard long was from We were an hour late i sailing . and did n't start till twelve .
Our one disappointment Was the thick weather -which prevented Gov hav anything more than very unsatisfactory glimpses of the Azores . But Oh : Gibraltar : The disparity says she has smitten you all stout
but I doubt if even her fluent pen can give you more than a Point il of the splendour , the grimaces and the charm of that wonderful spot . We did so wander for you , and Jones was the first to say it aloud ! how much he wished you were there
Yes t end 9th V ar furs t day . Sethe Meri t earnest was Lelfe M.P Y [ ﻿ E : `` stir un a smooth pale blue sea , and the splendid almost sinister coast of of : very near , with mountains so high there Was snow upon their summits . was after dark when we anchored before Algiers last evening end Court Theodore quite refused to let D. and me go ashore even with the dreamless Jones . They are everyone of them beasts in that town '' he said shortly , . `` The re 's no no , , '' , ' ing , '' ha t they might say to you '' . `` Not with me there , sir , '' said Jones . But he hould n't let us go . However the flashing lights of the town near the water and the soft radiance in ; moonlight of ther upon ther of dim , white , closely packed buildings J ing to the crest of the hill was ﻿ lovely spectacle from the deck of ship . Today the Mediterranean has been too choppy for perfect repute but we 've had Sardinia with us most of the time with its rocky mount , ranges , fit home for hordes of bandits . Baedecker says trifle that
`` public safety is not rearranged to travellers in Gardiner . ''
J
Dear Cousin T. remarks at intervals what n fine fellow you owe , and
instantly exploring Again and Juin ho ' '' it happened Oh : At he did not
recognize you . He is perfectly devoted to Doris and I am pickle : lost
to death . He said the other day that with us two in Egypt he knew he 'd
have a charming time . `` I 've sometimes had such dreadful people '' , he
wadded !
I do so hope you can find time to go to see Gummy . least do if you possibly can , Dearest . I 'm so afraid the memory of his family may grow dim if he does n't see any of us for six months , and I really could not bear that .
Did Doris tell you of our wonderful presents from Mrs. yells ? For D. a check for 250 francs to buy something for herself ; and for me a beautiful wooden box with lock and key , filled with the most delightful toilet antiques , exquisite soap , colonel , bath salts etc . etc .
Well , beloved , goodbye for this time . I 'm wondering when my postal from Gibraltar will reach you . My love to Jack and Wilson Boss . endless , endless love to you and every blessing on your dear send .
Your very own
Mio
The Mediterranean
Norddeutscher Lloyd , Breen
sumpter `` Prinz Heinrich '' Sunday Dec. 1 , 1912
