Dar1ing Gopher -This voyage isalm0st 0ver; -\I'e ~ redue i n ]X ~
in the morning at the crude hour of siX, though we don't hive to go
until considerable later. But, presum~bly, there will be bumpings
hDngings and yel1ings from five on so that sleep will be wooed in V The vOyRge has been a good one as voyages go. This steamer is very and most remarkably steady; the service is excellent, filling end il courteous; and as for the Table you could stuff until you burst if : were so disposed. The menus have included everything the plain Arne) has been used to from infancy, as well as everything you never henrc
from "Spit-cake" to "Lobskans with dilled cucumber."
After you bade us goodbye that day, which seems so long ago, we ret~ to our sumptuous stateroom to find it filling up with b"skets of fru boxes of fl~wers, letters, telegrams and books from many of those to whom we have endeared ourselves. One wondrous basket Was from Nelso and Wallace, and n box of chrysanthemums us big as cabbages with see a yard long was from We were an hour late i sailiD~. and didn't start till twelve.
Our one disappointment Was the thick weather ~hich prevented GU~ hav anything more than very unsatisfactory glimpses of the Azores. But Oh:~Gibraltar: The Sister-Kitty says she has ~ritten you all Rbout
but I doubt if even her fluent pen can give you more than a fRint il of the splendour, the grimness and the charm of that wonderful spot. We did so hanker for you, and Jones was the first to say it aloud! how much he wished you were theT~
Yes t end CtY V ar furs t day. inthe Meri t errnnean was pel∑fee t.L Y [j E: " stir un a smooth pale blue sea, and the splendid almost sinister coast of Af: very ne~r, with mountains so high there Was snow upon their summits. was after dark when we anchored before Algiers last evening end Cous~ Theodore quite refused to let D. and me go ashore even with the peer≠less Jones. t1They are everyone of them beasts in that town" he said shortly, ."The re 's no kno,,",' ing ,"'ha t they might say to you". "Not with me there, sir," said Jones. But he \\'ouldn't let us go. However the flashing lights of the town near the water and the soft radiance in ; moonlight of ther upon ther of dim, white, closely pRcked buildings J ing to the crest of the hill was R lovely spectacle from the deck of ship. Today the Mediterranean has been too choppy for perfect be~ut~ but we've had Sardinia with us most of the time with its rocky mount, ranges, fit home for hordes of bandits. Baedecker says brieflY that
"public safety is not guarrRnteed to travellers in Sa~diniB."
J
Dear Cousin T. remarks at intervals what n fine fellow you ore, and
painst1Jkin~ly explnins nguin and oguin ho'" it happened th:.t he did not
recognize you. He is perfectly devoted to Doris and I am tickled :.lmost
to death. He said the other day that with us two in Egypt he knew he'd
have a charming time. "I've sometimes had such dreadful people", he
cJdded!
I do so hope you can find time to go to see Kimmy. Please do if you possibly can, Dearest. I'm so afraid the memory of his family may grow dim if he doesn't see any of us for six months, and I really could not bear that.
Did Doris tell you of our wonderful presents from Mrs. Eells? For D. a check for 250 francs to buy something for herself; and for me a beautiful wooden box with lock and key, filled with the most delightful toilet articles, exquisite soaps, colognes, bath salts etc. etc.
Well, Beloved, goodbye for this time. I'm wondering when my postal from Gibraltar will reach you. My love to Jack and Wilson Foss. Endless, endless love to you and every blessing on your dear hend.
Your very own
Mim
The Mediterranean
Norddeutscher Lloyd, Bremen
Dampfer "Prinz Heinrich" Sunday Dec. 1, 1912
