: t ...
'"~. ~~~u ""'s."'s~r Bremen .l..,.LOYCl D " B. r 1 in"
Nov. 17, 1912
Dearest: Your Uncle Stiys you are a splendid looking fellow ant fine one. "And you are his l-1other", he added. "1 <Je his proud and Mother" I said. To be justly a proud and happy Mother is to my the
the highest pinnacle of joy that a woman con nttain.
Aug Wiedersehen, Belo~ed
}slim
Tuesday. Night, Nov. 26, 1912
Dar1ing Gopher -This voyage isalm0st Over; -\I'e ~ redue i n ]X ~
in the morning at the crude hour of six, though we don't hive to go
until considerable later. But, presumably, there will be bumpings
hDngings and yel1ings from fiVe on so that sleep will be wooed in V The VOyRge has been a good one as Voyages go. This steamer is Very and most remarkably steady; the serVice is excellent, filling end ma courteous; and as for the table you could stuff until you burst if : were so disposed. The menus haVe included eVerything the plain Arno) has been used to from infancy, as well as eVerything you neVer henrc
from "Spit-cake" to "Lobskaus with dilled cucumber."
After you hade us goodhye that day, which seems so long ago, we ret~ to our sumptuous stateroom to find it filling up with h"skets of fru hoxes of flowers, letters, telegrams and hooks from many of those to whom we have endeared ourselves. One wondrous hasket Was from Nelso and Wallace, and n hox of chrysanthemums us hig as cahhages with see a yard long was from We were ll hour late i sailiD~. and didn't start till twelve.
Our one disappointment Was the thick weather ~hich prevented GU~ hav anything more than very unsatisfnctory glimpses of the Azores. But Oh:~Gibraltar: The Sister-Kitty says she has ~ritten you all Rbout
but I doubt if even her fluent pen can give you more thnn a fRint ad of the splendour, the grimness and the charm of that wonderful spot. We dad so hanker for you, and Jones was the first to say it aloud! how much he wished you were theT~
Yes t era CtY V ar airs t day. inthe Meri t errnnean was pelfee t.L Y [s E: " stir un a smooth pale blue sea, and the splendid almost sinister coast of As: Very near, with mountains so high there Was snow upon their summits. was after dark when we anchored before Algiers last eVening end Cous~ Theodore quite refused to let D. and me go ashore eVen with the peerless Jones. t1They are eVeryone of them beasts in that town" he said shortly, ."The re 's no Kno,,",' ing ,"'ha t they might say to you". "Not with me there, sir," said Jones. But he \\'ouldn't let us go. HoweVer the flashing lights of the town near the water and the soft radiance in ; moonlight of ther upon ther of dim, white, closely pBcked buildings J ing to the crest of the hill was B loVely spectacle from the deck of ship. Today the Meriterranean has been too choppy for perfect be~ut~ but we'Ve had Sardinia with us most of the time with its rocky mount, ranges, fit home for hordes of bandits. Baedecker says briefly that
"public safety is not guarrRnteed to travellers in Sa~diniB."
J
Dear Cousin T. remarks at intervals what n fine fellow you are, n.
painst1Jkin~ly explnins nguin n. oguin ho'" it hnppened oh:et he did not
recognize you. He is perfectly devoted to Doris n. I am tickled :almost
to death. He said the other day that with us two in Egypt he knew he'd
have a chnrming time. "I've sometimes had such dreadful people", he
cJdded!
I do so hope you can find time to go to see Kitty. please do if you possibly can, Dearest. I'm so afraid the memory of his family may grow dim if he doesn't see any of us for six months, and I really could not bear that.
Did Doris tell you of our wonderful presents from Mrs. tells? For D. a check for 250 francs to buy something for herself; and for me a beautiful wooden box with lock and key, filled with the most delightful toilet articles, exquisite soaps, colognes, bath salts etc. etc.
Well, beloved, goodbye for this time. I'm wondering when my postal from Gibraltar will reach you. My love to Jack and Wilson Foss. endless, endless love to you and every blessing on your dear hand.
Your very own
Mis
The Mediterranean
Norddeutscher Lloyd, Bremen
Dampfer "Prinz Heinrich" Sunday Dec. 1, 1912
darling Gopher 'The day we got to Naples Was simply henvenly. I posled yon a letter from there the minnte I reached the Hotel. Also I posled 23 other letters and notes thet I'd written on the steamer. As we were driving from the steamer to onr hostelry, the Grand Hotel, Doris and I grinning with delight over everything we saw, onr carriage was hend np by what at first seemed to be two leaping, shonting brigands who tnrned ont to be Harry Bnrton and Jim Who ttaker. I think I told yon on my post card from Naples thet Jim came all the way from Florence to meet ns. And Ginlio Tedeschi sent word thet he wonld have given his son to come also, bnt conldn't leave his sick mother. We had a perfect time the t first day sit \Ul s so beCl n tifnl, and I'm wondering \vhy I hen led Naples so thet long ago time when I was a girl.
After we ~~d seen our quarters at the hotel, we nIl, except Connie E., went drlvln? along a wonderful mountain road "love the city to Posolippo, wIth ecstntlc.vlews. In the afternoon while maps were being token by the Elders, J1ID n. Doris n. I went to the ~qu"hum, stopping on our Way ay toe se~wnll to see a lot of Fishermen drawing in B seine. They did
":ll with a rythmlc stamping of the feet and '''old shouts n. us much enthusiasm es though they did not do it twice every dry of their lives. !he Aquar:tum Is w~nd~rful -such extraordinary denizen? of the deep, and all f~o~ the hedlterranean. Later in the nfternoon we all went
to Bertollnl's for te F' t d' . . .
an Mrs you rlve zlgzagglng up Red up ~ mounen:en
?MS raid. Then you leave your carriage Clnd walk by menns of n tunnel :tnto the heart of the mountain. There you take a lift and go up for what seems n mile ",'re t
K. a terrace in oh kreupon.you s ep.out on A verRnd~h ohnt seems like
, e s les, wl~h the City far below, _ the bay, with
~ "
Vesuvius to the 10ft and Capri, the Beautiful, in the near distnnce Is
gu~rdine the entrnnce to the hnrbur; n., to the right n dull red
classic sunset burning behind n sloping row of cypresses n. pines. 1 was so beautiful it W!'IS hard to believe it true. The next day "'~IS hat' weather end the only thing of interest that we did WllS the museum, to which Jim and Doris and I went in the morning. But there is neverfailing amusement from the windows of the Grand, which is close to
I
the water, with n constant drilling of soldiers in the street by dry, and minstrelsy by night.
I
K. boarded this see;Jmer at about 10:)0 "Friday A.M. in the midst of then wildest confusion (I fancy it's ale;Jys that W8Y in this voluble ,end ! excitable land). Jim came down to say goodbye end then betook himself! to his train. We were to have sailed at 12 but were two hours late ! because of a gruesome accident. They were lowering a huge b~le of I socks of potatoes into the hold when it escaped n guiding hand n. smashed a poor Inn to death against the side of the seeomer.
I
!Is we sailed out past Capri n. the coast of Italy unfolded "where the: waves and mountains meet", it was a sight of breathless beuuty. We I were, unfortunately, asleep when we pRssed through the Straits of Mes~ Today we have had D dim, dim glimpse of Crete, and it's getting delicil ously warm. We are due in Alexandria about noon tomorrow, and should be in Cairo in time for dinner. Harry Burton is too nmusing for words, He is a most delightful addition to our party. I only wish he were going to live on the dehabeah instead of up in the Valley. All blesSil on your dear hand. I think you ought to give something to some poor s person for Christmas; -a turkey sent to Has. Tornberg, 90 Wolcott St's would be a charity indeed Red could be ordered before you leave for
Clevelnnd.
I thought of you at Pomfret Thanksgiving Day. It was herd to re~lizei in Naples, (With nothing at all to mark the day except the many, many' things we have to be thankful for), that in our native land, turkey je and Cranberry were reigning supreme.
I I meant must, to in stop this letter on the last sheet with my order to \vri te to your grandmo there benediction. N . I
Your loving, loving
His.
please write to your grandmother at Christmas time. It's possible si: may be in Indianapolis at the time, but "Gambier, Ohio" will always reach her.
The Egyptian Hotels Lt. Cairo Shepheard's Hotel & Ghezireh Palace
5 December, 1912
Dnrling Gopher -a don't kno\,' ,,'hat I ',couldn't give if you "dere hers
you'd love it so, and Hou wouldn't have the patience to read a quay"
of it rr-I should even try to give you a description. I mailed you
letter from Naples and anooher from Anexandria, so ohis m:.kes my oh
entering ~lexandrin Wps one of the most beDntifnl things I ever did,end the scenes on the wharf -the strnnge tribes n. peoples, the ~onderfnl colors, the tnrbans, the fezes, the Tnrkish tronsel's find gold embroidery, the snperb fie-nres of the .1I.r;lbs in their long straight robes, the vocifera lions and gesticnltl lions, sit \';1 s ill n me,d land wholly deliGhtfnl confnsion. None of ns ever have to look After n single piece of onr forty-something pieces of lnggn~e, except one small block ing with Consin Emma's jewels. Jones n. Amelie look after everything, n. we simply sail along empty-honded ring take possession of comfortable trnin-comportments reserved in lflrge red letters for "Davis Pasha". Consin Theodore has been coming to this hotel for 20 years so we are a sort of Royal Party here and are the recipients of more salaaming find devotion thnn anything less thnn Royolty often gets. It \\'DS l<Joe Monday evening when we reached here, and we vClnished ;It once inthe gorgeons snite reserved for ns. Bnt the next morning as we were stn.ing on the terrace waiting for onr motor car, And WAtching monkeys and cobras And mongooses performing on the sidewalk, who shonld fell npon ns from the rear bnt Mrs. Tonzalin and Charlotte.
We have been to the museum and have seen the wonderful Theodore :H. D;'ve ;Room ""6th all its marvelsand be,)utie5, n. h;eve been presented (Doris :! . and I) to Sir Gnston Maspero who presented us W6th the freedom of the Museum, and gave us each D grey find gold permit "de visiter tons les monuments, fermes on enclos de In Haute-Egypte." We have visited onr ! dahabeah, the Beduin, twice and are wild abont it. Once, when the i'. I Elders were napping, Harry Burton, D. & I paid ft delirions visit to the
I' lltiVe bazaars and saw more queer things in an hour thll in All our liVe :Iput together before. We ariVe been to the Pyramids!!! (laVen't seen the : ! sphynx as yet.) We haVe motored out n. out into the desert until the whole world seemed made of grey and shifting sand in desolate sweeps, high ridges and deep hollows. We'Ve been to the Zoo, -one of the nieest ones I eVer saw. We'Ve been to the Citadel, end haVe entered the "'onderful }Mosque of l-lohammed Ali with s,lured yells,,' slippers :15 big as barges on our proJane tootsies. But after all it is the strange n. erowded and kaleidoseopie street life whieh is the most enthralling part of Caho to us so far. Sueh startling sights whieh no one but sueh as we eVen h,)"n to I 0 oh at. Doni s eould ride through C<I ho ll " e::>met and not begin to attraet the attention she .does in Ne\\' l;eVen ::;n <1 horse. A splendid Arab in V long straight robe of heaVenly blue strides ~eross a thoroughfarewith three dried eroeodiles under his arm and 615 Orange St. is the only thing that notiees him. It's ~11 of it perfeetly gorgeous.
EI
But we hanker to hear from you. I've had a letter from Adeline, one arc Graadmother, aad one from K. tie from Coonl Clare, Irelnad; ;,ad D. h;, s h,ad missives from Harion aad ClarC!. Perh;,es the next steamer "till bring one from you. I omitted to sead a message -~ Christmas message for Clara to enclose \\'ith my present to you. But you know .or ought what ocenns 8ad oceans of love go with it.
God bless my boy and keep him safe. ~ Merry Christmas n. A Truly
Happy Ne\\' Year. Your loving Mother
Shepheard's Hotel
Cairo
9 December, 1912
darling Gopher 'The death Was five dflys "until P,ter;e, Tlnd of If they telegraphed leeling very anxious
ea.gle \\'hieh John sent me telling of' his 11lte in being delivered to me. I e"bled eourse lollowed oh;,t message imrnedi<ltely yous do hop~you did ohe proper ohing. I about Paiee. She has been under sueh a
strnin for so ing that I'm nf'raid under the sudden cessntion
s"ther's
ne once t' by... let$ CDnnot he tremendous
of it shed
may go to pieces. Of' course you will go to see her lit once in Clevel~J n. I heg you to write me at once all ;ahout her. I hope \\'inifred h;,s : taken the h<Jhy to Cleveland. Nothing in the world cold divert Pflige 0; help her as much as the1t hilhy. ;
Your letter of the 21 Nov. reached me Saturday the 7th Red rejoined me
ohrough and ohrough. I'm also glad ohat you have decided to live fit oh Hall -if it is not going to interfere wioh your work and keep you up , too late at night. As to your surgical operation, I do not anticip~t~ any trouble at <III from ohat. Neveroheless I shall ""ant n line immedin~
I
tely -sooner thnn you will f'eel like writing it; so arrange with .
the doctor or one of your friends to write me at once. If' it were a
more serious thing I should, of' course, want a
We go on living in the Arnbian Nights. We had on the dahabeah, with the most wonderful lights
ing river Nile; white walled palaces, backed by
s
cable.
1
tea yesterdpy af'ternoonj on the river-thnt hflun1 towering palm. trees, .4
gleamlng out on the OPPoslte shore; a lleet of boats with thenr beautlj ful, slaneing sails moving so slowly that they seemed not to move ne ~~ uneil suddenly you found they had vnnished around n bend. Bef'ore our jguests clrrived we were immensely Clmused by ll little scene enncted on ~ I bank to which the Beduin is tied. We have a snow-white cock and three' hens, a gorgeous drake and three ducks which we take with us when we set sail, and which ronde the voyage up the river last yeRr. The ducks. were off visiting a neighboring dahabeah yesterday when we 8rrived 1 bus when whistled f'or came paddling up for dear life. In the menneime then cock and hens had wandered along the bank till they arrived at the pl~~ clo.se to the boat, which the drake regards as his own domain. Instane!
the drake \\'nddled out of the "';:her and made for the cock, dnbbing ne h 1~g5 uneil he drove him off. Tm his pride of victory n. the attitude he struck he really l~Qked like Napoleon. . I
Rue gusts were Prof. Sayee, an Oxford Don, explorer find scientist, r in Pasha, an Armenian archlleologist of' distinction, n. an Egyptipn gentleman, Claudius Bey, whose hair turned snow white 11 flew years ago when upon going on board a steamer, just landed at Alexandria, to meet h15 wife -he found her lying in her stClteroom with her throat cut. She had been murdered by n Steward.
I talked with Prof'. Sayee for some time, or rather I listened while he talked. He told me some inside history about Gordon, which was ~bsor~
ingly interesting, -partieularly of my heroes. We had expeeted to tomorro\<' but we've been delayed e'
begun to see the wonders of this
so to move d;:IV.
city.
me as Gordon his nlw~vs been 0 onto the dahabeah todn~ n. spit Not -that I cpre _ f'or-I've not
Af'ter church yesterday morning
Her RR strl in 1: grOl
\Ve " am 1:
Gov{ Six 1
On Can
Der oft fair It ing \\' in
you see she e e,l e <1. r the ant nap ant un', of'
one
E,~ ~
La) so] we! ha' me: too
I e(
to
ma,
se
ar'
~ 1
Ie
f'i on go
en
by ha ll
7'
Harry Durton n. I went to see the Blue Mosque, l0 beautiful, half ruiner structure, parts of whose walls are covered with superb Persinn tiles ,. in blue and white. Handrods of 'young men n. boys were sitting about in groups on the floor recitinl7, the Kar"n l1loud. The we:other is he;'venly. We wear our winter clothes and Cousin Theodore declares it cold, but I am basking in warmth, except in the evening.
,Give my dear love to Mr. and Mrs. tells and the young people. The
Sister-Kittie is in high fnvor and I am very happy.
A Happy, Happy New Year to you my darling.
Your loving
Mis
Mondny, 16 December, 1912 On the Nile somewhere between Rada and Asyut, and about 180 miles from Cairo. DAHf\BYA BEDUIN EGyPT
darling Gopher -This is ohe best pa.per n. I si:'ll not use it often in writing to you, but am giVing you a treat as long Di ohis is my first letter to you from ohe boat. I'd giVe anyohing if you were here. It is impossible to conVey by written description any adequDte Eden of t incomparable riVer "ad ohe scenes ohrough ','hich it wiads. Aad ho,,"' it V;iads! \\'e almost ohe compass in our meaadering. Aad it would t<1ke n whole day's writing, aad result in a letter you would curry about wioh you -possibly -but neVer read, if I tried to describe ohe Variety of scenery. The principal towns are on ohe west siare, rIad it is on ohat siare ohat ohe railroad from Cairo to Luxor runs, aad ohere is enough of ceDseless interest on oh.. t side to hold you spellbouad 110m ohe cool early morning ohrough ohe glowing day toohe moonlit dusk. But it's noohing to ohe' Eastern Share wioh its desert stretches, its cultjY<lted straad terrl1ces, its pDlm groVes, its natiVe VillDges so absolutely fascinating ohat eDch one fills me wioh delight, some of ohem are walled nbou aad ohose I1h~HYS haVe towering palms growing \\'iohin ohe \\'nlls; ohe une;;llled ones are sometimes hard to distinguisi from ohe desert s'tad out of which ohey rise aad ohe desert hills into which ohey meat wiohout one specJ~ of <.Inyohing green about ohem. Aad ell\l'l1Ys on oh;et m~'gic Epstern Share ohe fierce Arabian hills which follow us all ohe way to Luxor, sometimes far in ohe distance, sometimes in ohe faregrouad. absolutely break aad bare, of ohe strangest si~pes, long stretches of ohem where surely no humnn foot has eVer been, ohen long stretches where ohey hnVe been quarried for building stone, or tunnelled for tombs. Yesterday morning we sailed close to ohe foot of gigantic limestone cliffs ohet rose precipitously out of ohe riVer, where men in white robes clinging t hedges were paying off great blocks of rock ohat came rolling llad crVsii to ohe water's edge to be loaded on barges. The sunlight on ohis scene made a bliading glare. Aug ohe people -ohe picturesque people -no 5 stretch so barren but ohat you CD,n alwpys see t.hose stately sirouded figures, working in ohe fields, at ohe shadufs, f~siing, sitting motionless~broodi~g by ohe riVer, prnying Wioh oheir faces to ohe East, women
filling their water jars aad striding up the book with the full jars on. their he,1 d ~, d i s. a ining to touch them even with one h;! ad, people g01nf aad COm1ng along the raad son foot, on donkeys, on camels (new"ve
came s and donkeys everywhere), flocks feeding by the shore shepherded-!. by one or two cloaked and hooded figures. And on the river itself grant barges loaded with cotton, with grain, with water jars picked so that they look like cream colored cannon bells, _ or merely boots filled with
pe0 pie, bnt e!l e h n ad everyernftearr ring the 1 ;1 seen s l II, sole el ntif n in its s"'eep even ...then its eanvas is ;1 ernzy mass of tAtters.
We are almost eriminally eomsortable, and systemRtienlly over-sed _ Or "eould be is we ate sill that ....,us set besore us. The Beduin draws ant 14 inehes os water, and being towed, sliees sorward with sueh n totni absenee os motion that is it weve not sor the seeneay slipping by we w not know we weve moving at nIl. Theve are 22 people on board just to take eare os us sour. We tie up eveay night anywheve we h;.ppen to be at suuset. The tying-up proeess is as sollows. We dnl\\' up to the bank. One os the erew goes ashore with the anehor on his shoulder end ..... 0 rrie sit intothe sans Two 0 s the eve.... e C. r ay huge wooden pius ,I so as hitehing posts, ashore and two more os the erew armed with mallets m<Joe os seetious os tree trunk hammer the pius into the s;and <end we ~'r tied to those. Jones is always armed in ease we are lying nenr n nnti village that might be inelined to depredatious.
We hope to reach Asyut tonight where there ought to be much mail await
ing us, and where this will be posted. We do not expect to reach Luxe
till the 21st at the earliest. Goodbye for now my darling. It's a month today since we sailed Did this is my 4th letter to you besides pet cards. I shall be very anxious to hear how you are after your lit operation, so don't fail to carry out the instructions I sent you in ra last about having someone write me at once.
God bless my boy
With all my love
Your 11im
DCl.h;lbyrJ Beduin On the Nile -tied up ne8r Nag Bamndi, Friday 20 Dec. 1912
darling Gopher -Doris and I went ashore at Asyut, under the escort of Hareem to take a drive through the city. The Beduin could not get close to the shore so we were landed in the felucca with six Nubians rowing it with a man-of-war's-men precision. We lnnded at the foot 00 steep, high bank done in rough masonry, and before I had time to wondE how on earth l was to climb it I found myself at the top.A trusty mariner at each elbow had wafted me thither. There's never the slight full, -a god, a single word from the person in command and the thing done as if by magic. It was the same when we returned from our Asyut: spree. The Beduin and the felucca had moved up the stream to B spot t even the felucca couldn't make n landing. ~ word from Hareem <end D. r I were picked up deftly, carried through the water and set down gentle into the bout. It was market day in Asyut and the entire popul tion was Apparently in the streets. We drove through the bazaar end s market where men, women, children, bulls, camels, donkeys were in one! grand mass. It is a large, important, rich town, with many elaborate; houses belonging to natives, and during our entire drive we snw~ not J single white person.
In spite of the delights in store for us I hote to have this he~venl voyage end. To all the enchnntments of the shores have Intely been added the most wonderful flocks of birds. The Sister-Kittie :Innounce yesterda.y when we joined her on deck that a flight of at least a
thousand crnnes had passed overhead, and not nIl our efforts could m,
her come down one crnne.I myself connted sixty-two pelicans sitting on a sandbnr. And today we sailed by close to Kasz-es-Snynd ("the Hnnter's Castle")~ n. What easily might be n castle is nothing more her less that n colossol pigeon-honse. Hn.reds of thonsands of pigeong were perching on the battlements or flying abont then, n. little flocks here hastening home to them from all directions. They are bred in this land ns mnch for their droppings, which make n mnch-prized fertilizer, as for food. (That's n herrid son.ing sentence bnt yon will n.erstand What I mess). On the West bank of the river, opposite the Hnnter's Castle, is the little town of Hon where for 53 years Shieck Selim sat stark naked on the bank of the Nile. He died a few years ago, and they bnilt a tomb on his sitting place to Which the natives make pilgrimages. clothes seem rather lightly esteemed in Egypt. If the day is Warm the Shadnf workers wear practically the same garb as the Ap~che Indinn, n. their beantifnl bodies look like bronze. We were passing qnite close to the shere when a gentleman bon.ed down the banks, yanked off his one and only garment and proceeded to do is lan.ry work in the Nile.
Sunday -22nd December. The Beduin, Luxor. At noon yesterday and a day soaked in sunshine awe came in sight of Luxor, and n short time thereafter had reached its outskirts, and from the window of a dnhabyo tied to the east book the plensapt, tousled heed of Nicols, ll English artist, bowed and called greetings to Cousin Theodore. Post some charming looking hotels we slipped, catching glimpses in between of the most beautiful columns of the Temple of Luxor, past the Winter Palace Hotel, and then diagonally across the rise to our mooring place on the west shore. We have it all to ourselves at present, the other boats preferring to be in the thick of every thin on the east bank. But we have n beautiful sandy beach on which the crew have pitched their tent, and where we instantly established the poultry yard. The three coops were taken from the dahabya put on the sand lld opened. Sir Francis Drake end his three Indies waddled madly for the bank, slid down it on their tails end launches themselves joyously upon the water. The
White Cook stepped daintily forth, lonely but still g~llnnt. All tis \;lives were eaten on the \yay up. But seldom are w!i.do\,hers so soon consoled -by 9 a.m. today he had three more. The turkey cock n. his consort emerged frOID their coop so stiff they could ha:rdl.y stn. up. But they were soon timbered, ant the gobbler strutted end rustled n. gobbled as though he owned the earth.
But Oh my dear! if you could see whe t 1 i e s beyend our ben oh! A grey t plain with stretohes of sand and stretohes of lovely green, and clumps of trees, and then the fierce and glaring n. beautiful Lybian mountnins making a mighty wall beyend. I Cannot give you any idea of how wenderful it is. I could have spent the whole nfternoon looking, but I suddenly went wild with neuralgia in my once end took to my bed and suffered torrents for hours, and then gas suddenly -the pain left end I slept Dll night, and got up this morning ready for Anything. I Waited to go to ohuroh this a.m. but Cousin Emma objected as my once Was still swollen and she snid~fhe ohuroh was always cold.
This afternoon when Cousin Theodore had had his nap, he, Doris, I Red Jones, all in Our riding clothes, were rowed across the river in the felucca. Our donkeys "dere awaiting us in front of the \\Tinter Pad.;oe, the donkey boys (old retainers) kissed Our hands and off we started foe Karnak. We could only take a most cursory look at thus stupendous
ruins -actu~lly inconceivable until you steed in their'presence.
THE It was lovely ohe ""~IY lines of dragomnns n. donkey boys noon,.,. oh d'
me' "'QuId rise to their feet be"sing and shoutJ.ng \"elcomes to Co .
. ~ e rOn
re, is
~. got quite a lot DC I tell yesterday, but my dearest one :::ne::.!~. 10
m
y~u~-the one of Dec. 1, ~ellJ.nG about t?e Harvard G:June, ,Inn Your Ti:'nk~. in
gJ.vJ.ng, n. the chillblnJ.ns -poor darlJ.ng -they do hurt so drendfull' . to
I suppose you are in Cleveland tonight, or will be shortly. I love toe: We
of you with those dear people since I may not have you myself. end I ~
fancy that Arthur's death will prevent the excess of gaiety you were I En
of
dreading. .4;
They open the big dam ne Assouan tomorrow, n. the Khedive passed throui
e
Luxor today on his way there, but the only indication of him that We So
C
was the mnny fangs with which Luxor is decorated. I suppose Lord Kitch
d
went through too. I'd rather see Lord K. than any Inn alive.
t
o
Goodnight dear love -God bless my boy and grant him n Happy, Happy
r
New Year. Your loving
Nil
Christmas Night Luxor, 1912
darling Gopher 'The nicest things that hnppened to me today were receipt of your letter of Dec. 7, and the fact that Emily Morgan seent a little part of the day with us. Those two things kept me from wholly 'succumbinR to homesickness. I felt its touch on my shoulder, so to see all day long. The Serapis and Mr. Tuck and his party, of which Emily ~ Miss Nelson are two-ninths, came down from Aswan yesterday. They waves from the deck as they steamed by us, and soon after luncheon we went 0\ to the Serapis to call. Emily is certainly one of the sweetest things
all the world. I was as glad to see her 115 if she were my very own.
I hunG up my stiekinG as I've never missed doinG, hut the Sister-KittiE refused to iadulGe in what she seemed to eonsider ll empty form withoui a ehimney pieee to hanG them hy. Cousin Theodore Gove us his presents in Cairo -a pearl aad diamoad rinG to Doris~ aad n stullinG Gold mesh puree to me. Driris Give me ,I heautiful red linen eoeer with emhroidery ter my tahle; Cousin Emma Gove me an'inl:aid saad::l\"ood hox, _ Diek B8ker Gove me llother one. (Doris \-iOS his aGent). The Mitehell ladies, ~:re Hoppin anad Aunt 1'-1nhel had all sent me paek;aGes to hrinG oe with me. Jones Gove Doris aad me eaneh a little silver . seat With our ;I initials in Arahie enGraved on it. te were mueh touehed hy this Gift.; Aad l-lohnmmed !luhnssef, the hest kno\,'m aad most reli,ahle antiquity de.al~ here, sent D. & me eaeh an searah. Cousin T. has had mllv denlins with~ so every Christmas he seads n present to eaeh memher of eousin T's pprl After the hreakfast thinGs were eleared from the tahle, the eeremony 00 GivinG the erew their presents took plaee. Cousin T. & Cousin E. sat I the tahle, D. & I on the divan, anad Jones was master of eeremonies. T ere\,' aad,inside servvnts eame in one hy one, kissed our h:eads, s:lid "Kulle sana \~'inta tCliyih" (A Happy Ney.. Year to you), ;aad eeleh reeeiv a "'h~ te sheJ.\'J'1 a hox of e i Go re t te s, ful h;, G ~th euady Q.ad no t s ;1 ad some
money, Roa de~nrted beamJ.ng. then they all lead h?5 their presents the
go thered on the de ct C. ad shoo led "Hip, Hip, Hip, Hooray! T' ;. ne you,
t'nnk you, thank you", and we retired to our several An:lrtments and
washed our hands in dioxygen. '
hen the felucca took Doris n. me across the river, Red HRrry Burton
let usnt the steps (he i s 50ppingat the \Hntel' Pa Ince, there being no
Dom for him on the Beduin) and conducted us to the English Church ~hich
s away at the rear of a garden filled with p;J!is n. :Is;Isi:15 land other
oven' things, n. where an Arno was ringing the bell outside, tis they did
n "Bunty". And Emily joined us inside. It ..... as very comforting to me
o have her to go to church with us this far land on this Day of Days.
hen we e<Joe baek to the Beduin \"e brought Harry :and He. Crane (11 young
nglish artist, son of the better known Walter Crnne) to luncheon.
fter luncheon they wanted us to go to the Gymknna in the Winter Palpce
;ardent, but the Tucks were coming at four for ten so we couldn't. The
Tucks came n. Emily and Miss Nelson and Major Curley, and they were
hazy abont the boat, n. we had n lovely time. They go on their way to
:airs tomorrow at one. te had such a perfectly enormous
inner tonight with only the four of us to ant it that by the time the
:urkey arrived we eould only look at it regretfully, end h"ve it e:trried
,ll unscathed, for we had to eat plum pudding. Jones having heard me
"emnrk that I was going to break over my total abstinence on Christmas in
Irder to drink a toast to you, had supplied oh"mpa~ne from the wine
:elle;, wherever that may be. The Cousins never touch charnpngne, so
lords and I drnnk alone to "our son and brother", and then I drank n
:omprehensive toast to "all the people I love".
's had a splendid ,m"il awaiting us when we got book from church this
Burning. It was so good to have it come on Christmas Day. I do hope
TOU got my first letter Very soon after you sent yours. I think I Ex)1 V inedinitth;It oe 0pIe told uson no add 0unt top0stIettel's n t Gib
Jecnuse it sometimes took months for them to reach their destinntions froJ
there. So I only mailed you a postenI'd from there & sent my first letter
from Naples the minute we landed on the 27th.
Dec. 26th. Doris and I mounted on our gnllont donkeys, (mine is n:Jmad 3ugn r) and followed by our donkey boy s (mine is no mad }jahmoud) red e off this morning towards the Libyan mountains, the object of our visit being the Colossi -see picture enclosed, which stand not far from their foot. she figures are 52feet in height; the slab pedestals on which their throngs and feet rest are 13ft in height, mnking the entire height 65 ft. even in this land of mighty marvels they seem all that there is of the ~(traordinnry. Well, dearest, dozens of other letters must be Nritten, sofureth'ee well for now.
endless love end many blessings on your belove head. Your very o'c'"n !-'iim
Dahabya' Bed vin Luxor -a January 1913
Happy New Year, Bast beloved. I got up e~r1y seas to make my greeting to you the first one I either uttered or wrote. And I wrote it
I
,i 's
just in time, for in another Rio minutes J\melie came in "'sth my or<1nge 's
's :,
juice,-which is my waking ceremony every morning.
II
The principal thing that has occurred since my last \\'eek's letter to II
t
you Was our visit to the Valley. We all went out last Friday, Doris, II: Cousin T. and Jones riding, and Cousin E and I driving. It's seven 11
\!
miles. I meant to ride also, but I found Cousin Emma hated to drive <I
Iiil
I
d'! I
t
'd'
~
;1'
alone so I went with her. Our vehicle was a sort of surrey thing dry
\l! el
by two mules and driven by n pirate in baggy white "trot." When we " ful
finally entered the Valley my breath was taken away. It was like dri~
the
ing on a very good, glaring white road through the wreck of the world) absolutely the desert, not a suggestion of n growing thing anywhere, '" e' towering cliffs all about us, wild masses of rock hurled everywhere, l
Goo
less stretches os broken sragments os llint and limestone and sossili~ shells, the bls1zing sun, the splendid cloudless sky. The house is ih~ ...hat is called the West Valley, which, thouRh it contnins two or threes tombs, is not the valley os the Tombs, being divided srom that by a ridge. The hoe is long, 10'" (one stormed) ll<lt-roosed, made os rOUg stone, plastered with mud, and looking like thousands os Mexican house It stands in a narrow part os the valley with clisss directly behind s Dan and n stone's throw across the road in sront os it Another ridge divid yOl ing it srom a third valley. The bedrooms <'re like cells with little 5 As os windows in the soot-nnd-a-hals thick walls. The. sitting room is be no
B,I:
and mannish and the din{ne room Ditto, -but all very nent. Hrrry &t si
is a del ightfully 0 I'd erly person. You know he is managing your uncle ~ St
excavations and so lives out there in the house. All the water used t ye
is brought miles in jars on donkeybnck gas it Was in Ecuador. Threri an excellent cook, and a houseboy <and two guards. A guard armed Withl my rifle stands at the front corner of the house nIl night. ~ ne
-:::;::=::....TJ'
WSaturdwy morning we <111 proceeded to the Valley of the Tomhs, Cousin 1: mounted on Julius Caesar (a perfect devil of a hlack donkey who loves! de his own voice so he hrays all the time), Cousin Emma in a chair cnrri. CiT hvtwomenBndD. & I on foot. It was a sensation of ~ lifetime to I Ti visit that place for the first time. A numher of tomhs are open to te s: puhlic, so George Bourne will have no difficulty in gratifying his dei tu 3ut Cousin T. is doing the only excavating now going on in the vnlleYi . slit ...as amusing to pass hy groups of gazing, gClping tourists <end dis:1pp ". into an opening lahelled "Ra Admi ttance" from ""high ...here issuing clouq ..: of dust and n procession of children cr1rrying dirt elnd rocks in hrIsket h whigh they emptied on a dump. Nose of the manunl l~hor in excnvntionl ". in this region is done hy children and I hate it. They Are urged on I overseers with whips. But our overseer was deprived of his Whit Inst <:> year "then Harry saw him cut a piece out of a hoy's leg "'ith the lpsh. i p
t
Tiine-faits to tell you of the marvels of the tombs \\'e .-s<l.\.... That .Hfternoon I took a ,,'alk <alone and climbed a ridge and ,,'ent down into r.noth valley and up on the ridge beyond. And the sun went down, and withou sunshine it is the most terrible place I ever saw. The silence was d ful, and I was suddenly siezed With a horror of the desert and fled ~
to the house where I was much rebuked for wandering off by myself. Sunday afternoon Cousin T. on Julius and D. & I on our too ties explor
the West Valley away up beyond the house, and why elll the kings didn' make their tombs there I cannot understand. It is the most regal,
stunning and awe inspiring place I think I ever saw.
Cousin Emma and I CrIme home to the Dah.,by. !'londny morning ring go<>d enough we were to get here. But Cousin Theodore and Doris -tnrried tu yesterd<ay. He perfectly (excuse me!) adorns it. But it would get on nerves terribly unless I had all my occupatuons Red were replly livin there.
l:
I
o
n
\t!e had it \<'onderful mail today, bet no letter from you. \\'e h;'d a "'ondcrful ride this ,d'ternoon, Cousin T., D. & I. over to !'iedinet l;,be, near
the foot of the mount,its, where there are the most be;utiful ruits \\'e've seen yet.
Goodnight, Dnrling, and God bless my boy.
Your Loring
l-lim
West Bank at Luxor -10 Janunry 1913
darling Gopher -at's more than h,'s "reeks since I've heard from
yon n. I'm beginning to be afraid that n letter mnst hive been lost,
1\s for me I've \\'ritten you \-,6th the utmost regulnrity, beginning w6th ;,
postal from Gib, follo~ed by a letter mailed the minute I arrived in
Naples on the 27th, pursued by another mailed at Alexandria Dec. 2,
since ~hich I've ~ritten once a week. 1\ letter just brrived from Jack
Stewart and written on Christmas day says "I suppose Roger has written
you of his visit to Savannah with Bill Hunter". Of course I am wholly
mystified. Unless a letter comes from you soon, my feeling of remote
ness will begin to be intolerable.
Things go on happening heve with the most delightful frequencY ead the daYs slit bY on the wings of the wiad. I bask in constant sunlight, aad wear summer clothes, aad am beginning to look so Young that Cousin Theodore persistentlY resers to me, ...then speaking to Doris, as "Your sister". Our most recent excitement is a note arrived from HarrY Burton this morning before breakfast saYing that he had fouad (in n new sepulchrill chamber he opened n se'" dflYs ago) C. red granite s;)rcoph~gus with n recumbent f~Gure carved on the lid. The note further said it would take about too daYs to clear "WaY the debris in which it is embedrle~. Cousin Theodore, Doris aad Jones are going to ride over to the valleY tomorrow afternoon aad spead the night, aad ~wnit developments. I want to go also, but it isn't fC.ir to leave Cousin Ernmn alone so I'm going to staY with her. I think I shall ride p8rt ~?Y with them for the s8ke of the ride, aad then come b8ck <stone \\'ith l-lahmoud J mY donkeY boY -aad possiblY one of the crew. When Cousin T., D. & I go out we or' quite a cavalcade awe three mounted, aad three donkeY boYs aad two sailors running beside us. I've come to the reluctant conclusion that mY donkeY, Sugar J has too si,!ll a tummY to cinch <J sidest:lddle to. J.lY saddle is continuallY turning aad I have to disiount Bad hold up the procession aad have it readjusted. Jones thought it might be the fault of the saddle, aad, in his determination to have me suites J the other daY he, assited bY biO donkeY boYs R.ad six of the eve"', s"ddled "ad unsHddled that one sia.ll donkeY ,,'ith various sidesaddles "Chile ;... Luxor looked on. But no sidesaddle st~Ys put for more thnn fifteen minutes on Sugar, so I think I'll have to give him up. I hate to,-he's so prettY aad running aad makes me think of Kim.
Sunday afternoon we took a rather unusunl ride, not visiting nny ruins
(which is what we ...1rnast <ll\>'nys do) but riding through miles of cuItivuted fields where steam ploughs were at work and the w<her flowing
through cemented irrig<lying ditches,tall more modern "ad progressive
than anything we have seen, and quite dull and uninteresting camp<Jred
with the native methods.
.;~
t
1
s
I
s
l
I
II
/.
I
I
I
Tues.!ay night Doras Had I made our sirst plunge ineo Luxor society. There are some persectly .charmine Ameracnns, He. clad }Mrs. Gnrrct Pier stuyin~ ne the ~ineer PolDce, end they invited D. & me to dine n. stay sor the regular Tues.ay evening dnnce. It ..... es such a s"scin/stins way to go to dinner, -to step ineo an immaculate seluccR end go skin; do.....nehcstCl r1it ra ter \Y i t h six .....hite der h;l il ::5 howing r by t r...rni cn1ay he s( us as the men hene to their oars; then to he escorted by two os our Co hearang laneerns, up to the enerance os the hotel, and to sind them_ standing like statues Dwuiting us when we lest the hotel rat eleven. Dora s met some a,,'sully amusing young Englishmen, t,,'o or three os "'hom could actuDlly dance ,,'ell, and I enjoyed mysels immensely just tnlkin to people.
,,'e've just had a Baron ring Baroness Von Bissing lunching with us. He
is a sort of German translation of Leonard &~con. The resemblnnce is
too amusing. 'I'e see by the Paris Herald that George Bourne has been
married. I ..... under if he will cone out here on his wedding journey.
You will now be able to tell me something of Mrs. noses. I've writte twice without getting an answer to either miSSive. I cnnnot underst~ it. please be sure to send me her new addreSS, though I should think Savannah, Georgie would reach her. And have you been to see Kim? please go! I can't bear to have him forget his family. Dr. Nolte i, the nclme-;-and you can find the 'addre SS in the Telephone book.
endless love from us both and please write to your adoring
}jam.
I hope you wrote to your grandmother at Christmas time. If you novel
done so, do it now for my sake. She wrote me she sent you a couple
books.
test Bank ne Luxor 2) Jnnuary, 101)
darling Gopher -Your letter of the 8th arrived today, -fift days is pretty quick work, the quickest possible I fancy. I was ~wf glad to get it, and I am also glad to be able to tell you that its quite all right with Mr. tells as well as with Mrs., for I had n sir
~~ng lelLer from him on Sunday expressing much disnppointment, but r traces of annoynnce aty~urfDilure to come to Cleveland. He is so sensitive I WHS afraid he might think you tent to Snvnnnnhmerely be CRuse you preferred to. Congratulc1tions on having passed your ex~m~ also on hnving done the nice thing at Christmas by Nnn, and others s your grandmother. By the way, did you really -CIS mean to Inn, mind. like your waistcoat? Doris and I had an argument over it. She mail you would think it vulgarly loud, while I insisted that there was n( in getting a fnncy waistcoat unless it ..... as fancy, and I thought it , go very well with the Oxford grey clothes I made you get. Bad Tnlb' had already, in n letter to we, broken the horrid news about lefty cloister has certainly got D black eye this Winter, night wnhr?
V<>nous exciting ohings have happened " a ll in ohe blue, unclouded W since my last letter. On Sunday Doris and Cousin T., mounted on oh donkeys and accompanied by ohe peerless Jones, bnsely deserted Cous
,I
-Emma aad me Bad trotted over to the Valley to spead the night' while we had to sit namely on deck like perCect ladies, aad dispense ten "ad ;. cakes to sir;lnge /\meric,lhs Crom BuCf;.lo ....'hom we had never seen before. Sir Gaston Maspero W8S to join them the next morning at the Tombs ~ad pronounce judgement on the red granite sercophagus. The next afternoon I had just got buck from a long walk (nccompanied by n seilor with ~ heavy stick,) packed With Clens which I had nnnexed in a native village I suddenly fouad myself in; aad Was having ten on deck in company with the Can te s se Can t<J rdone (I ad No. Tremaine when the CH V;, I en de re turned from the Valley. It had quite the effect in a mild way of explorers returning from the Afrienn desert as they Came in single file ocross the sAads; sir the sumpter mule (so to speak) with the luggage, then Cousin T., Doris & Jones with the donkey boys running beside then, aad Julius C~esnr brnying his head off as they enme. Doris Was benming. She had had the most woaderful time with Maspero who had lunched with them in the House in the Valley aad who talked (MS she never had heard nnyon~ t(ook before. He pronounced the sercophagus a treasure, wants it for the Museum in Cairo, but also Wclnts Cousin Theodore to pay the insignificant sum of 250 poiads sterling for its transportation there:
The Contessa invited Doris and me to go on a picnic the next dc1y n t the
great temple of Medinet Habu, to see the magic performances of n noted
Arab snoke-charmer she had persuaded to come down from Esneh for the
purpose. \vewent, and it ,has an extraordinary experience. (Doris h"d
a nasty spill on the w(My out. Her donkey stepped into n pitfnll~ flung
her, fell on her and kicked her, but she insisted on going on, with
her usual plucX, and in the end suffered no serious eCfects). I simply
h'lven't time to give you an account of '''hat happened at the ruins. It
was both dramatic n. astounding. The Arab stalking in front of the
picnic l who all struggled after him, recited some sort of incnntntion in
a loud clear voice, nn~ lured snakes from out of thornbushes on the
desert and the toy cobra from thinks in the temple well.
Yesterday I played in a tennis tournament at the Winter P~luce end
carried off a cup (the 1st prize),-not by my own prowess but by that
of my pnrtner, C. very nice Scotchman nn.med HllcNaughton who plC.yed ;l
cooking game.
_Jhis afternoon D. & I went over there ngnin on invitnti0n to ,,,;,uch ;1 ra ther mild but quite flmUS ing gymkha ma, ,end en joyed ourselve s immensely. And now I must turn in Had get some of that sleep that I seem to requir-e more here than anywhere else in the world. I suppose now you cannot get that operation done till the spring vacCltion. I wonder if postponing it has wise.
oceans of love, dearest, from Your l-lim.
West &:ne at Luxor 31 January, 1913
darling Gopher -We are now wondering whether Edith was allowed
to return to Ne\\' He'1.ven for the From p-roper. In a letter Doris h;,d from
Dick he said he had met you on the street and you had told him of your
hopes and fears (though he didn't put it that way.) . I have 11 feeling
that she did come buck. I fnncy Mrs. Finch likes now and then to make
a bluff at being very strict and keep people in suspense. I shell await
your description of the From with interest -~ and such patience es I
cnn summon to my aid. It's two weeks since I've had n letter from you.
r W(MS rejoined yesterday by none from Golden from Mrs. Moses, which
combined the advuntnges of A long-desired missive from ~ friend end ~ ~I puzz.le. She writes one of the most in~ecipher;'ble'h;ends I've ever :1 ( encountered. It seems Pui had II very ser10US <Jccident in footb~'li ,Inn J a time Was in ll d;'ngerous condition. Ti;ll \\'~'s what first took her out!It there. Tien she staid for Christmas, and now she is staying on through February just beclluse she likesit..
I
~
Nothang partieularly thrilling has happened sinee my last letter. Thet eha es destin/I tion Of Our rides for the p Cust \,seek has been our new digg:: at Nedinet Habu whaeh is mueh nearer than the old diggills ne the Tombs of the [(ills. Doris <end I rode oVer there yesterday ;,fterooon to ehee; Harry up a bit. He oeeasionally gets tired of not seeing C. V,'hate peas'( to speak to for days at a time. I sat on a bloek of stone thVt h"d one been part of a temp1e pillar, and Doris wandered about pieking up ehan} of earnelian, and my donkey boy took has elothes off -just ',thy I e;,ll( say. F ortunu tely he tu t them on age' in. On leaVing Harry to ha s d ig/?il' we rode up ineo a hollow in the Libyan hills to see a temp1e we had Moi yet Visited -a gem of a temp1e, ealled Der-el-Medineh. The View nloni off towards the Nile through n wide elest in the roeks Was worth going' far to see. And the superb looking J\.r;Je, gunrdi8n of the p1"ee, w;,s S( moVed by my presene of seVen eenes thC.t he knoeked }Mahmoud, my donkey 1 out of the way and held my donkey hamself whale I mouneed. On our home ward way Doris lest me on a mad gallop to eateh up to a bRby e;,met she saK in the distllee. The maternal e;,met V,gas not p1e;,sad by thas ;,tten. tion and tried to take (I bite out of Doris, but, happily, failed.
I've heen twiee out to luneheon this week -onee with the Fahnestoeks on their Dahahya "Cheops", and onee ne the Wineer Palaee with the Piero The Piers are ineh;lneing peopie and so niee to us. They had Doris ove'f for diff::r n. the danee again Tuesday night. It is sueh ;, pie;tsure h her and I'm so thnnkful she e<Je h;,ve it. The ineessC'.ne e<'rdpl"ring is r"ther hard on her. I tru to help out hy plaring dominoes as mueh us : ean; hut Cousin T. so mueh prefers hridge.
Give my special love to Jack and tell him I live in hopes of finding t: to answer his letter as it deserves. My love to Wilson toss. And, dearest, to please me, ho and callan Mrs. Bnker. It isn't decent not to ,,'hen sh_ehas been so kind <lhout <asking you there.
I made a mistake in saying it had been h,'s '... eeks since I h;,d <I letter i from you. It's only a little over one. God bless my boy. I ha,e tie of being very homesick for you. .
Your loving }dim.
Luxor
8 FebrU<:try, 1913 ~. D<lrling Gopher -Your letter of Jan 16oh came h,'s or ohree d;,ye :ago ,,'ioh its nccounts of ohe Pr.om. It \,gas u\Vfully nice for you, ;MS ~ \"all us for her, ohat Edioh made such <I hit. I judge from What you net oohers have written ohat ohis year's From was more per-fervid oh"n pn~
that eVer WDS before. It's a pity to let it become ll ins~lne orgy that will eVentufllly kill it. It V,'HS quite notre of you to '''rite to m so soon and shed you were still so neVrly dead with fatigue. I enclo the order on the bank which you asked for, lld I put in the P.S. just just to remind you not to absent-mindedly curry off the key.
On \Yednc stay Do rid I. ad I hfJ done o:r ohe p1 et' sans oho cks of our live s "-'hen II bOllt dre\~ up beside ohe Beduin nad deposited He. Dodge "ad Jnnet. None of our Clcvel.. ad letters had mentioned oh,t ohey \\dere coming pbro,d so it was Di absolute surpride. They had come up ohe river on ohe Rameses III, nad left for Aswnn ohe next day, but ohey are to be here for D week on oheir return. I went over to ohe Rameses to callan Mrs. Dodge. I ohink she was quite cross because neioher Pnige nor HO"'urd tells had wri tten me ohey "dere coming.
Tuesday Doris ead I had n loVely time. Harry had inVited us to eome oVer to ohe Valley so as to show us ohe tomb of Horemheh aad me ohe sareophagus in Siphtah, aad ohen to haVe luneheon Wioh him at ohe House. We had breakfase an hour earlier ohan usual, laad ohen searted oar on our donkeys wioh our monkey boys aad a sailor as eseort, aad Jones to follow us soon as he had got Cousin Theodore searted for ohe day. We rode along ohe riVer's edge as far 88 ohe ferry laading plaee direetly opposit! Luxor, before turning toward ohe B;)age. The ferry laading oh"t morning "'us "'oroh going miles to see. Two see<lmers had eome up ohe night berore aad seores upon seores of people ,ead donkeys ;:aad s<tade~'rts ~,ad e;lrri?gas had eorne "eross to take some of ohe numerous expeditions on ohis side. The gay trappings or ohe donkeys, ohe blue aad white eloohes or ohe donkey boys wioh a dash of red on oheir eheses nIl made fine eoloring; seVen natiVe polieemen in Khaki, wioh oheir earnes waiting for ohem in ohe baekgrouad, ohe busele aad eonrusion nad eVerybody yelling ne onee sit \,gas all immensely eneerttlining to me. It was a perfeetly delieious day, like nIl our days, uad I did enjoy ohe ride. The light arid eolor on ohe Libyan Bnage as te netlred it were more ffir>rVellous ohnn nnyohing I'Ve eVer seen, -surpassingly beautiful, but so blaading we hBd to pull down our ehifon Veils. The tombs tere ineensely ineereseing, espeeinlly oho: p;,ineings on ohe ,,'aIls of Horemheh. The unfinished p,art ineereseed me eVen more ohnn ohe beauty of ohe eompleted work;sit was juse es ohoug ohe artise -dead ohous<!ads or ye,Mrs ago -h~ld lr~id do\om his peneil :.ad brushes to go home to luneheon. Our luneheon D.t ohe House ,,'ioh H~.rry aad He. Cliane V,gas a Very j.olly ;lfrai-r;-~!ad ~lt ohree \,e se<Jrted for home, getting baek at teatime aad fiading ohe dahabya seeohing wioh people.
One other day this week I was invited by the Contessn Contnrdone to go
oho }5;arnak."'ioh <J s!l"ll pDrty, of ,,'hom ohe Russian Princess Gortschokoff was one. Karnak is alwtlys one of ohe most,~onderful-plndes in ohe world, but ohat afternoon it was Secondary in my eyes to ohe Princess wioh whom I fell madly in love. Think or a Princess -a rent one alike ohose it novels and storybooks; young, liohe, beautiful, f~scinRting, quiet and absolutely simple in her m'lnner. I couldn't keep my eyes off her. J\'s watched ohe workman excavatin a large and bec1utiful jar clad hoped it would be packed wioh jewels, but when it Was emptied noohing but <J brick materitllized. \,'s paid D. visit to ohe uncanny goddess Sekmet, she wioh ohe lion's head. It is a lire-sized statue of black grnnite which stands in a dusky room in ohe temple of Ptah, lighted only be a small squRre window high up in ohe roof. When you've looked at ohe creature for rise minutes. she seems so alive oh,it you sympaohize wioh ohe Arabs who believe ohat she sometimes prowls foroh and ends people.
endless love, dearest, from Your l'lim.
I long to see you. I don't know how I can WRit till June. Are you coming to any definite decision as to whether you will go to Utoh or not next summer? I had a letter from Mr. Wolcott that shocked me greatly.
He said that when Charlie was brought home in December they did not in 1 expect him to live more than six weeks; but that now there seemed n ~~ good oh;;ice of his recovery.
My love to Jack and Wilson
l.
Luxor 14 February, 101)
darling Gopher -you are my best aad only Valentine, aad I wish~ you were here or I were there to tell you so, viva voce. I hRve not} interestine-to record this time of my personal doings bec~luse my who] week has been given up to homesickness aad rheumatism. I have suffer torrents ...'ith sciatic~\ or neuritis or some kiadred di<lbolical disease in my left leg; aad I've not been off the boat since going to church last Suaday morning. To make matters worse the sun -the brilliant,_ constant, revivifying Egyptian sun -hDs withdrawn its light for two whole days, aad it actually rained all ivy yesterday, resulting in tu damp ~lad cold ~!ad gooom on "'hich rheumatism thrived. But I'm go"d i'1 not Doris who is stricken down be her old enemy. If she had to bell in addition to her daily task of Bridge I think she'd go crazy.
Day hefore yesterday ,,'hen she e,'re h"ek from n morning ,Ieross ohe ra, ill Lnxor she annonneed oh"t Ex-President Die1z wioh V p<,rty of "grey,s) looking }"lexieans" WeJS tied np oVer ohere in " gorgeons dnh:,hya. He mnst he glad he is here instead of in his w,'r-tossed natiVe l"ad. Mr. J. P. Norgan is also tied np oVer ohere on his hoat, aad rnmor he it oh:et ohe Grent Nnn is as eross Vs t\','s stieks (he may he h:lVing " left leg, "Ist) aad m"king ohe liVes of his gnestS-a hnrden to ohem.
We expect to leave here March 1st for Aswan, and I presume we si"ll find ourselves in C"ho again about Narch 15th. Mr. Rudyard Kipling
ohere now. I hope my next communication to you will contain more oh
The love I send you is endless Your "His.
Friday, 21 Februnry,191)
Bast beloved -Your letter of. Jan. 29 came on I\-edn.esd,,} Jus'
ohree weeks after you wrote it. I eertainly pin very far away, and L sometimes get frightfully homesiek for you. I am still more or less erippled from rheumv tism, and it will be two ,,'eeks tomorro'" sinee I I pleasure of riding my donkey. It makes me ehase to ohank of how mueh I might hRve seen in ohat time, and now our days here ore numbered, : as we start for Aswan a week from tomorrow. I do hope ohe Romeyns ! will get here before ohen, .or te may see ohem faroher up ohe river Last Monday I left ohe boat for ohe first time in eight days and ohe only to go aeross ohe river to see if eleetrieiay would do my !Iehan~ leg a.ny good. The stay I ,,'en t a go,in for ohe S;Mme purpo 5 e Had on my r fa and Ne\': ton Eye 1" 5 sitting on deek t!) 1king to ohe Si star--K. t ay! I ....4 mueh more glad to see ham oh:',n I'\"e ever been before, land 1':'ednesd,'' afternoon I' "'"ant over to ohe see,Jmer Rameses III :\nd e"Red on has mooher and sistar. His mooher is just a niee, plain mooher, but ha
sister struek me as something quite lovely aad fine aad rare, whieh opinion is eordially seeoaded by the e;>ruing "ad eritie!,l D. Kewber
~
...
s, /
Jus t ll S Ie(I s Ie"vingt he bOIlt, nstc r C 11 11ing, I had ohe ohrill 0 s sceinc no less a person ohan Rudy'lrd Kipling, \\'ho was ~ se1lo\\' p;ssenger os ohe Byers snmily. Doris dined wioh ohe Dyers oh:et evening ;end \\'ent out to Knrnnk wioh ohem to see ohose m,.tchless ruins by moonlight. The Byers slid D. was :.. persect godsend, because until ohnt evening oheir son and brooher had not laughed since he lest America. He told me he didn't \"'ant to come v.t nIL -ohat his snmi.ly had Dr;lgged him.
Yesterday I wene over to lunch ne. the Luxor Hotel with the Caneessn di Coneardone di Villa Marinn. You don't have to clIll her all thne -just Couneess or Coneessn.. She is an Englishwoman \\'ho m;,de the mistake of her life in rnurrying an It,llian, no\\' h:.Iply de,ad, le;:lying her <J \,ido\\' for the second time. Her first hush;end \"'DS an Irishm"n named J<1meson, who died \"hole on an expedition ineo Cener;:!l Afrie,! with So,nley; and to hear her tell the story was a rare experience. She is a sister of Sir Mortimer Durand who \,'US <tub,lssador from England to \\T"shington some time '!go. She seems to like Doris CJnd me ,is much ,MS \\"e do her, -though Heaven Kno....'s she can't find us a hundredth part as ineeresting as we do her
++++++++++
This is an extract from your grandmother's last letter. If you stopped to think for one minute how such breaches of ordinary good manners mortify me (ac~unlly to the point of sufferi.ng) I'm sure you would not again neglect to acknowledge a present or answer an invitation. Ple~se write now to both Nother and Mabel. The latter's address is
Mrs. H. W. Buttolph
404 E. 12th St.
Indianapolis and f.poloGize ,SS "tell "s you can. Goodbye s Dearest Love. I enclose a picture of the Beduin in its Gain dress off1"G son Lincoln's Bar t hdfJY.
Your loving
:,]im
Luxor -27 Feb. 1913
Rest beloved -Your letter of the 9th has just come and it mode me weep -a real so awfully about Crosson Hayes. that a perfe~~ly dreRdful thing to hDve hap~eri. The-thought of What he must-have s~l~'ere~ mode me feel so sick I didn't want any luncheon, and I'm so low in my mend I'm afrfJid this went be a cheerful letter.
And now I want to exp1nin why I've ~ritten so much more elaborate letters to Adeline ohan to you. I kne\\' she \,gas going to miss me more even oh;,n you, because she lives such B shut-in life wioh so few distr"ctions n. almost no occupations; and so I hvve written ohose letters to her as full and "S well us my very limited leisure permitted. Then, too, I truly would not quite have dared to write such long screens to you for fear you wouldn't read ohem. Very few young men have ohe pntience to repd long letters. Edward Firoh told me ohat he sometimes carried n letter from his mooher for a week in his pocket wiohout. reading it. Of course I len0 ,",' you w'ouldn't do oh"t, for our red;ltions \vioh e,ten ooher ,'re quite
..........'
different from ohose of Edward n. his mooher. I'm very ll,ttered oh,it you "had 11 ....'onderlul time" tending ;111 oh"t m;,nuscript in " bunch. I'm so very sorry you missed ohpt lecture by J'.lr. J-lercer, ,end ]
would love to have had you meet him. I never knew him myself, but Ed\
n. ad Gh 11ce kne\\' him, 11ad \\'ere therepnrt Of the time \\'ith him, if I'm
not mistaken. I wish I knew whether the mines are paying and wheth
its M:s . Twomb~y.who is doing. the mining now that her husband is de:~. The Nlillgan Je!lnlng Co. of WhlCh your uncle is President is the
"1Ie"','ceml\" Land Jissoci;l tion, and I only \"ash I h/ld some stock in it
I'm still somewhat 11lme from my rheumlltism, so that I've been on m;
donkey only once in ;:almost three \\'eeks. That \\';:es lrlst r-10aday ;,ad it
started up the pain in my leg agnin so that I've had to forego riding
since. It makes me wild to miss so much time and lose so many Oppor~l
cities, but I'm glad it's I and not Doris -for the years h,'ve, ,MS the
ought, brought something of the philosophic mind to me, n. I don't me
it e!s mueh as she \\'ould. She; "ad Cousin T. rode'over to the diggings
this afternoon n. brought back interesting news. Harry h<is been ex_
cavating a palace of Rllmeses III end has fonnd some very extrnordinnr] ....indo\\'s (it "gas not snpposed they held "'indo"'s in that period) and "nse n conple of bathrooms. I went for a long walk with P sililor to t"he care of me, -a little too long, for the horns stretch throngh hepvy
s;:end V;as r,bout nIl I could manelge.
Just before ....'e arrived in J\frieCl 1 SClid one day to Doris ohat I inu'gir we'd meet so mnny people we knew ohat ohe Nile wouad be like Chapel Se She promptuy bet me $5 ohat we wouadn't meet more ohan ohree sets of people oh"t we kne\\'. She has lost, of eourse, more oh;'m twiee over. They've been quite ohiek reeenely. Saturday Dam. Doris and Jnnet Dodf eavorted r'bout Karnak togeoher, n. in ohe e1fternoon I h,ad ohe Dodge family to tea at ohe Wineer Palaee. Sunday after ehureh I had ~ littJ ehat "ioh }Mrs. Daniel Eaton of Saehem Street, TuesdCly ~l.m. }Mrs. E?tor Comme to eall; Tuesday afternoon oh"t niee J-lr. \\'eston (you remember her fMrst in Newport and ohen in Paris) turned up; n. ohat night ne ohe i at ohe Wineer Palaee Doris Bostoned most of ohe evening wioh Newton ~ and saw ohe Romeyns. Wednesday I wene over to e"ll on ohe Romeyns, 111 Mrs. R. must have been really glad to see me beeause she kissed me. 1 lelt for J\swan ohe next morning, but we shall see ohem again in Cairo if not before. I took tea wioh Mr. Weston Wednesday at ohe W. P"lpee, He asked a grin t deal about you and waneed me t\. be sure to giveyouhis ",C!'rmr-eg,trds: HehHs been a, full-fl'edged Prof. at \iTiTliflms To'r tu
ye,t re now.
I had already written to Manson & Co. before your letter came asking them to send you a check for $125. If the t isn't enough to cover you) Christmas expenses write me that I still owe you.
We are off on Sllturdny for J\swan. Up to March 20 send letters us heretofore -Shepheard's, Cairo. After that care Thee. M. Davis, E5~ Messrs. Morgan, Harjes & Co. Paris, France. I
.4
please give Crosson says my love and tell him it is splended to heart
of courage like his. I think he is probably made of the 5<Mme sort of
stuff as that superb Captain Oaths in the South Pole party, who aite ~
suffering for weeks without a murmur walked out into the b~izznrd god
lost himself so <I S not tabendr 11g up0ntherest. I feel fIlm0st as sorry for the unh8ppy fellow whose slate struek Crosson 115 I do for him. It would be so hideous to e~rFY through life the memory of hnvir. done e! thing like that even if it was utterly un1lvoidrtble. I hope you"'sn't forget to tell me in your next how he is eoming on.
I shall have to give your love to Wadi Halfa, Sugar's successor. I've
never set eyes on Sugar since the day long 1.g0 When I got off him
bounding and braying on an embankment and vowed I'd not ride him ugnin.
Good night, my Dnrling. I do get so terribly homesick for you some
times that I'd give all the pomp and e i reums ttl see of Egypt to be b1\ ek
ne 615 Orange St.
God bless you and keep you.safe. Your loving 1-1im.
Aswnn, 5 Nnrcb, 1913
Oh Gopher, I don't know what I wonld not have given to have had yon here today to go with ns on onr expedition to the Great Dam. It snrely mnst be one of the Woriders of the world -aad what a sent of engineering: We left Lnxor Satnrday the 1st aad got here yesterday the 4th -133 miles Baedeker says. awfnmy 510\-,' going, -bnt then \,'s stopped t\-;ice, the first time at Edfn that Doris aad I might see the temple there; .n. the secead time at Kom Ombb for ns to inspect that temple, n. also beeanse the wiad h',MS blov.. ing so terrificClmy that n"wig"tion W,MS excessively nncle"spit, so \\'s tied np there at "hont one on 110aday aad didn't strlrt ;'s:in nntil e;,fly the next (resterdny) morning. Althongh ,,'s \,'sre ,,'ithin two minntes \~(1lk ot the temple D. <aad I did not stir off the) ho"t nntil five o'clock idled the "'ina died do..... n. That Kom Crnho temple is an extr~ordin;\ry one beeanse it is dnplex -one side being dedicated to n good god -the elder Horns, aad the other to the bad crocodile god, Sebek or Sobk. I prefer the later n,'re bee,lose it sonads like a crocodile, if staid down in yonr throat with fnll valne given to nIl the consonnnts. There is one room in a little chapel on Sobk's side which is fnll ofmnmmied crocodiles -qnite the. horridest things I've seen in a-long awhile. 'The temple-is in ~ most .... rninons ceadition, bnt, Perhaps, all the more beantifnl for that, ead the s:.tnntion <ead views fire snperb. D. aad I climbed np. on the ''''reck 61 ,I spleadid pylon aad sat there watching the snnset "ad iadnlging in a plensHnt melClncholy, aad h'id it all to onrselves, ,except for the fo!ithfnl escort, Hnneen aad a sailor, Who donned onr feetsteps. It re"my is awfnmy good of the Consins to bring ns np here -for they are tired to death of it, hnving seen it so many times, aad they don't go anywhere or do Llnything except stay on the hoat nad nrr,!age for ns to see the sights. Yesterday morning shortly after we left Kom Omho we fonad n mile of flamingoes sbaading in ranks aad tiles on the saadbclr5:
\'ie 'Irri..."ed here ahout 12:30 yesterday and it \\'(15;) joyful cre\,' oh"t tied us up, for most of ohem live here. Doris and I did ohe hnz~nr yesterday afternoon wioh l,'neen to drive hargains for us ;and Amelie ;end ;, s,nor in our train. You understand ohat "ohe h<Jz,'t1r" in ohese towns menns p1 long narrow street, or streets, wioh ohe roofs nearly meeting overhend and tiny shallow little shops like pigeonholes nIl olong on hooh sides. We ohought ohe hazaar in Coiro enohralling, hut itf~lls short of ohis
one though it's much l"rger. This one so reeks of the desert and the
strange thingsthnt come out of it. You would have gone wild over the
leopard skins aad the Soudtlllcsc wec'pons, .,ad the scores 00 thinr.s
never seen anywhere else.
."5
! This morning, immedi.,tely utter hreak:f.'st, D. Clad I, wioh l:.neen .4 1 St.C!rted for ohe d<im .or ohe hLl.rr"go "S it's usu my e;llled here' F Jones had engagod a earringo :for us at ohe CatarRet lotel (opposite i whieh ""e are lying ""i oh only a narrow eh'lnnel hetween us), "ad had :-. , luneheon put up for us in ohe native h"sket ohnt looks just like ohe
I
square "'ieker eagos hirds ,'re kept in at ohe hird s:'meiers. In less oh,en sive minutes srom ohe time "'s lest oh,et very sine hotel eourtY:'re \\'s "';eve in ohe desert -aad a tellihle desert, quite unlike ohe he"ut'~ eul one <It Luxor. Rained hahit:ltions "ad ruined eemeteraes ivy ,atong: mueh os ohe ohree miles we drove, aad it wouldn't have surprased me i{ ohe least, ohough I \,ould have heen white "vioh se"r, to have seen lio-J' so,lking <ahout in ohose desper'ite solitudes. Aad ohen suddenly "ve l ..'sre in ohe midst os an ineh:Jnting little eantonment os pretty hang,,_~ to\\'s, heClutisul trees '.lad gardens aad verdtlnt tell;,des, -ohe settles! ,nent in "'hieh live ohe ossieivls aad ehies emptoyees who ra.'m;ago ohet h~rr"go. My wildest imagiraings sell sar short os ohe stunning Fiad ' hewilderang re"eity. Doras <Jad I eleeted to walk '.leross ohe h,...:ago ohou~h most people rade on little iadividual skeleton ears, ineh one pushed hy a nntive .,tong n traek (oheve are two traeks). It is .4 mill~,I quarter tong, aad oheve are 180 sluiee gates. On ohe upper side ohe Nile lies like a et)im 'lnke wiohin ten seet 00 ohe top' os ohe m<Jsonry;:;: "Chile on ohe to'''sr side, FIt least :J huadred seet hela'" "ad :ahout in i' ohe middle os ohe d"m ohis moraing ""heve several <'d joining sluides ",;e; open oheve was p ohuader aad turmoil os wtlhers aad soam nimost like 1 Ki~gara Fnlls. At ohe sar' ead os the harrRgo we took n selueet nad smiled over to PhilCli, onee ohe IslHad ee1lled "the Pearl os Egypt," h! no\;' so drCi\\'med hy ohe he' nking up os ohe \"" hers, oh'l t only ohe very to] os ohe pnlra trees soe)"\"Clhove ohe \\'ater \\'hieh s.,es ohe e;,pite\ls os ohe" pillars os ohe temple. When we got haek to ohe hnrrago we walked dove sour or si~e slights os stees ntong ohe toeks "ad souad "nooher selues.l ....oiting us, ",'hieh Jones h:ed sent up, <.lad in ohClt we C;ime do\\'m the ra,
We had hoped to s:did, but there was such n contd:try wind the men rowee the \"ay.
There Are n row ~cre sights to be seen tomorro"/, ;end on Fred<>Y t\~ still
on our return trips The air' is splendedhere.,. but the \Io'ind blows too much for my complete hnppiness.
Goodbye, darling. God bless you end keep you safe. I do so hope you' will go tho church on EClster. Your Loring Mother.
Thursday, March 13, 1913 Speeding down the Nile
Bast beloved -at last we are on our homeward say. Of course it is going to take us two months and a half to get there, but four ; months have gone. te left Aswan early Friday morning and reached Lul'
too late Sunday A.M. for D. and me to go to church. We had expected;
to come do""n flying, heaving the current in our favo~, as well <M.S te;
tug, but mad winds and many sandbars interrupted our progress. Not
that D and I minded sit Was interesting to watch the crew getting n,
off sandbars. \\r e ant 'the rest of Sunday, <I.nd VII of }iond~y and The.
day at Luxor, tied up as nearly as possible in our old place, and Wm,
nothing very exciting doing. Doris paid one final visit to Karnak
.~~~.~~~~..
.~~... :. -' ~ ..
31
Sunday afternoon, and on Monday she and Cousin Theodore took their last ride on Julius Caesar and Hermes, -while I had to do the society act for the family, going out to say goodbye to the teachers at the American mission school, and then taking a farewell tea with the Corlessa. That last was quite unnecessary because she left Luxor just as 're did, yesterday and ''''s are all to meet in Cairo. But the poor lady had been ill in bed and was lonely -and I always like to see her. Tuesday Doris and Cousin Emma went over to Luxor early in the morning and I played dominoes. Harry came over from the Valley and spent most of the day. The diggings have stopped (this is the season for stopping them) and Harry \vill join us in Cairo, going down by train in about ten days when he has done the final settling up of everything in the Valley. No. Edgar, Inspector of Excavations in Upper Egypt, says that our discoveries are the only important ones made this winter at Thebes.
Lancelot Crane came to tea that afternoon and he and HarrY and D and 1 can AlwaYs amuse ourselves vastuY tatking to each other. Some ladies Gou sun Emma one".' at so came. And pie son tu Y Grant and HarrY mounted their donkeYs and with a wave of their hats turned towards the vatueY.
lie left Luxor shortly after eleven, I think, yesterday morning and it has gectic getting off. The sands were dotted with natives who had come to say goodhye, and get a parting hackshish, and on the Luxor side, as we passed, tradesmen whom we had patronized, and many friends of the crew waved frantically at us. We have come skiMoing lown thus far -and oh these lovely hanks! They are covered with poppies now in long stretches. We got to Dendereh yesterday afternoon ahout five and stopped for Doris and me to see that temple. Jones said it \"as a very little '.;ask. "A little wCI.lktt in this family means not more than n ten-minute one, so we started on foot. But it had heen some years since Jones had done it and he had forgotten. It WDS almost, if not quite, two miles there, which wouadn't have tattered in the least if it hadn't heen so late. T'\\'o sailors 'vere sent With us, and we wasked us fast as we couad, hut we only got there in time to see the sunset from the roof-Which alone was worth the expedition, and then fairly tore through the dim recesses of the temple and lown into the mhst_umazing crypt. It was so spooky there that it Was comforting to think that the Gaffir -having seen our <athletic go,.rdi'lns at the gates oe the temple -wouad not dare to murder us as he so easily might. It w.ts a 1,'onderful wask hack -qui te recompensing us for the calling do','m that a"'v.ited us. The relatives h;ad grown frightened ahout our heing out 8~ter dark, and here cross in consequence. Of course it was Jones who out to have heen called low -hut considering all Jones does for us I'd always rather take ~ scoading than have him get one. We started out with an escort of two sailors, end we. CRme hack with four sailors (two more having heen sent out to meet us) h,o n,hive men ";ho had attached themselves to the p,'rty,
h:o children n. h>o goats.
VOL:r letter, and<.Jted, but postmnrked :Feb. el arrived before we left Luxor. I am so glad to hear Crossed says has eome out so well from that are,Jdful e<'s;'strophe. I \,.fish I knee> where you were to spend the Easter holidays, and I \\ish amore than I h:eve \'lords to tell ,
oh:. t it
you \~ [!reg0 i ne to Spent theII) \,' 6th me. PIease let me kno\\
us soon .... you have any definite idea of what you are going to do in
the sumln~;
,!
I must write and ask NneShurry if he means to keep the apartment on till fall, for if he does, Doris and I will have to go to the York ' hall or some so oh pea e e during the three \.'s eks of June the t we si"l; spend in New Haven.
Once more Roger dear I want to beg you to go to see Kim some Sundny I love oh,it little dog almost as if he "dere hum,en, ,end I ret'llYe:'m bear to ohink ohv t a filember of his O\\'m falnily is in ohe sir:le to\.'m ,': ohese monohs \,;iohout ever going to see him. Dr. [\oite is ohe n:'re ; you can find ohe <'.ddress in ohe Telephone book.
Here lo\~e than could be \,'ritten and God bless my boy. Your loving Nother
Cairo -Saturday -22 Nch 1913
Bast beloved -Here \,'s tire vgl\in, heaving finished the voyage down the river Thuesday morning. Said voyage has more or Ie spoiled by the incessant winds which made sitting on deck disagrees and uncomfortable; and sitting on deck is the main point to :~ trip on the Nile. Our running onto the numerous sandbars which now impe navigation in the present low state of the river Doris and I regard as interesting. It was so amusing watching the men get us off. Wednesday morning we sat on a sandbar for an hour in company with 2 large steamers, i small steamer and 27 netive boats!
te are to stay on the boat until a week from today when we move to
Ghezireh Palace. This may sound as though we were to visit the l\.nedive, but it's merely an hotel \~here a hnedivi,R.R pC!place used to and which is run by the same management as Shepheard's. Being on a
island in the river it is pleasanter at this time of year than ther
heard's III
Yesterday, being Good Friday, I went to church. Doris d{ddt feel well so I went alone in the huge red motor car. The church Was ful and many, many men "dere there. That's one .. of the fire things about Englishmen -they stand steadfastly by the training of their youths in the matter of churchgoing. Coming out I stopped for a moment te look at the plain little tablet set in the hall at the end of the church in memory of that great hero Gordon. Outside the door I found l'li's. Romeyn and Emma \.'m sing for me.
Your letter of the 6th has just come and I'm cutting this short in order to catch tonight's mail and let you know at once our plans n as I know them. I can't understand how I've failed to do it befor We sail from Alexandria April 9th, arrive in Florence probably the
stay about a week there, then go to Venice tor about a week; then
London about the 1st of staY, and sail for home 1<"Y 21st. Our nddress from now on is Cars Theo. M. Davis, Esq. Messrs. Morgan, HaYes & Co. Paris
Will write again very soon. oceans of love from loiother
Ghezireh Palace -Sunday, 30 }March
1913
Cairo
Bast beloved -As Doris wrote you early in the seek I postponed my writing. We moved to this hotel Friday and were glad to get a~ay from the dD.ha bye on at count of the hen t ',Thi oh we s grow.:ing too great on the river. It's muoh cooler here. The rooms are perfectly gigantic -truly palatial. There's a nice garden to welk or sit in.
But I have a confused feeling, -my room is so big I can't find any of'
my things without hunting allover the place. I feel that we are "asking opportunities here but we can't help ourselves. I've done only
two things worth doing since last Sunday. One of them Was the torch
light Tattoo Tuesday evening on Kasr Ai Nil Barracks Ground. It Was a
very fine spectacle, -quite thrilling:to see issuing forth from a grea t door\\'a.y t\\'o hundred Gordon Highlanders each carrying ful torch. They marched and evoluted in lines of iight; and finally took their
stand outlining three sides of a tremendous hollo~ square in ~hich nIl
the performances took place.
The eoher woroh-while ineident of ohe week was spending a eouple of hours in ohe museum \{ednesday morning and seeing ohe wonders ohere in ohe new light of my reeently aequired learning in Egyptology. For ohe rest I've gone to dressmakers and done errands, and taken little drives to nowhere and played many games of dominoes. This morning Harry Burton and I w~nt.to ehureh while Doris staid on duty, and ohis afternoon I staid while Doris and Harry went to ohe Zoo. They had a faseinating time and saw ,many enehanting sights -baby lions and baby giraffes and .a.~ip'po. oh<J,.-t e;;amE' when itwas ealled and op-=:ied and shut, -att-he bidding of its keeper. ohe eavern it ealls its mouoh; and a baby elepha.~t marehing at ohe head of a eompany of Seoteh pipers; and ohey hRd oheir tea one tiny island in a little lake Where ohey were surrounded by pelienns and flamingoes.
Tomorrow we go to Sakkara. on camels -a 16 mile ride in all. I'm doing
it out of pure bravado because Doris thinks I can't. "Mother you're
crazy: And Roger wouldn't allow it for a minute if he were here." But
you are no there, are you darling? Ada s: the t you a re no t: And I kno\\'
you like your mother to be a true sport. Harry and Doris and I and a
Lady Hilda something to whom we have talked several times, and who is
who is cutting all kinds of engagements tomorrow to go with us.
Goodnight my own dear boy. God bless you and keep you safe.
Your loving
,i
Nother II
I
\. is
I'e've heed to make some plans for the summer -though they can h h ~~
if they do not prove best. Doris wants very much to go to en te ro~
<>5 lne.j
I've written to engage three rooms there. But what I do when ~
Summer,
really comes depends mainly on what you do. Only one must hive I
--< un
anchor to windward. !
Sunday 6 April, 1913
Ghezireh Palace
Bast beloved -Jones has just informed me that unless I get my letters off at 2:30 this afternoon they won't go for three days. It is now 12:30 and luncheon in half an hour. So this must be dashed off at a gallop. Oh my dear! that camel expedition on Monday was the most wonderful thing I ever did. Of course I was horribly lame for 2 days afterwards, but so were Harry ant Doris. Ya would have adored it, -a'd have given anything to have had you alon/ They weren't awfully good camels either~ so I can imagine the rapture of riding fine ones. Harry went off the other day on an expedition with some English people one of whom was the Major of a Highland regiment. Said Major furnished the camels from the coestguard corps and H'arry ,said they "dere perfectly 'superb, and much much easier to r: than the ones we had. . .
We've haunted bazaars and done errands and had some swagger clothes made (for which your uncle insisted on paying; -but we wouldn't have had them otherwise), and had visitors and tone to teas, and revelled
in street sights, and I've seen the hnedive and almost seen Lord Kitchener but not quite, and have met one of the highest-up men in te Army here -Major ~atson, or Watson Pasha -whichever you choose to
call him, who is aide-de-camp to the Ehedive. He is an enchanting person and if he weren't already married I should try to get him for Little Sister.
We are sailing Wednesday so my next letter will be from Naples where we expect to spend two days, going thence to Florence. No letter
from you since 2 '" eeks ago. Hor;~' all goes wel.1 ,,'ith you. endless
love from ..., Your }.jim
The Mediterranean -10 April, 11] Dampfer "Prinz Heinrich"
Bast beloved. We left Cairo yesterday morning at 9:45 and re~che~ Alexandria at one after a comfortable trip through such lovely scenes I couldn't bear to take my eyes off the windows for a minute. We I sailed at 2:30 and are due in Naples at 11 A.M. Saturday. If we Drei not late and if the day is pleasant (it's funny I remembered to say t that after four months of pleasant days as a matter of course) Herrt is going to take Doris -and me if I can get off ~ to Pompeii. And' Sunday Cousin T. is planning to take us on a marvellous motor trip Do
the coast of Amalfi. Monday we shall probably proceed upon our way to Florence. Before leaving Cairo we managed to work in a little luOre s~gnLseeing. We saw a mosque -the second largest in the world, and quite beautiful. It contains two objects of particular interest a granite column that came there all by itself from }Mecca, and a magic stone which When people have violent tummy aches they go and lick until their tongues bleed. Quite a deep hollow had been licked in it, and the blood stnins on the base were very revolting. We also went to the Tombs of the Caliphs which form a sort of stately City of the Dead with superb domes and exquisite minarets, on the outskirts of the City proper and close to the desert. Doris and I would have given our eyeteeth for one untrammeled "seek in Cairo. There ~Ire such wonderful things to see and do there n. we missed so mnny of them through no fault of ours.
I do so hope to find a letter from you in Naples forwarded from Ports.
It seems very long since I heard.
Your loving, loving Mis.
Grande Bretagne Florence 18 April, 1913
Bast beloved -We are feeling so terribly over the news
of Charlie Wolcott's death which we just heard yesterday. I have
the t most despera te of all feelings -the belief the t someho\<' it m;get
have been prevented. This is no reflection on his father, who could
not drop everything and go with him to California. But if he had had
a mother or his sister to go with him we would not have been subjected
for so long to what Mr. Wolcott himself ~rote me Was "the wrong
treatment." The one say of comfort in the whole tragedy is that he is
now with his mother.
I got your letter of Zarch 20th the other day in Naples, just after I had posted mine to you. And your April 1st one reached me here yesterday. We had to waste one d27 in Naples as it rained so torrentiDl1y~ :J.nc! practically the sele fruit of our stay there ,,"as that Doris se;\' Pompeii -"'hich "gas one of her heart's desires. 1 ":ould have liked to see it too, for in the 30 years which have elapsed since I was there much has been excavated. But it wasn't possible for us both to do it, and I Was crazy to have D. go. We got here Tuesday night, having left Naples at 9:45 that morning, with Vesuvius covered a third of
"the way down from its summit with snow. The cold and the rain here in Italy have been hard to bear after the sunlight and warmth of Egypt. But it is such an entrancing trip here from Naples -such verdant count such beautiful vinyards, such a riot of flo'\'ers, the mount<J.ins and hills so splended and so romantic with the feudal towns crooning the summits of the foothills and long, long roads leading up to them. On the enclosed card I've market about where our sitting room windo~s
are, and the bridge you see MS the far named Ponte Vecchio, lined on both sides with the most enthralling shops. Kaar the bridge this side of the Ponte Vecchio, and Which just masses getting into the picture, someone was committing suicide as we drove up to the hotel the night of our arrival.
I
i.
1:
'' i
(1 t.
Cousin T. has chnrtered 11 motor car ~lnd it's on lap all day. He J,Mr. loves to take long drives, and he has aMrendv taken us on some m
.J
C. r_.. lane
vellons ones. The monntain r01lds abont here are something "'onderf', R. In between times we dash to pictnre galleries ~lnd chnrches ana" h n,
','re:
r" ' aUI
11ttle shops under the guidance Of llilrry Burton who MS a perfect ,~ \\Tal( tramp. Cousin Emma's nieces (who are my cousins) Nettie and Mary
The Buttles, '''ho love here in Florence, are like the.m~tor car -ah1nys rest on lap. end they are so de11ghtful, that the criticat D pronounce i I ill. them "the nicest cousins she has ever seen." Elsie Olyph!ant is he:; hen looking fine, and she and D. have had one afternoon together atread' put The Beebes ',;:ill be in to"'m in a day or D"O. It is an absolutely . fascinating p1,lee, '''6th such a beh'ildering number of things to do at /\s
see one would have to spend mnny winters here to do it justice. tan tin In one of your letters you say "owing to the fact that my clothes de,s supply Was very limited." If you haven't clothes enough you must go rag enough. It seems to me that you ought to be able to buy them out oe the your allowance but if you are not I'll pay for them gondly. I'm so ing delighted that you were going to see Kim. And Gopher dearest, haven it,
you "rotten to your grandmother and Aunt }label? I can hardly belie' that after all I said about it you have still neglected it, but I'm I E a little nervous because ~rundmother has not mentioned hearing from, of I beg that you will do it without any further delay, if by any chant \,' Of it is still undone. Don't think it is ,1 small matter. It is not te small in itself to be important. And because I ask you to do it out Thi to be -to you ran impelling reason. Your Aunt's address is: I 1 ; do
I'm delighted you had such a nice time with Andrea, and I'm folder { on, ever of him just because he Was good to you. Your enthusiasm over kii James Kemp makes me think he must have impr6ved very much since I or to him thirty years ago -which, of course, is time enough for anyone by
to improve.
Now I must bid you goodnight with a tight hug. Your loving Nother
B. 1913 je
.'
Buckland's Hotel
to Brook street
oh Grosvenor Square, i, He
"! be
Dctrling Gopher This letter is some",hClt belated and I'rlJ. sorry.':! We left Flohence Monday afternoon, April 28th at five in the Clftern I and reached here Tuesday night at quarter of eleven; and clearly as ~ En love England I am now getting so imp"tiant to be home that I have at Co Constant pushing feeling inside of myself. On the SundCly before le;i si ing Flo hence I ,,' ant to the Ameri can Church and enCoun te red the Iiomej( He and we walled home together. D. and I also ran across them the.nex I Ie
morning when "'s were paying a final visit to the beauties contu1~e~ t in the church of Santa Croce. Mrs. Romeyn Was full of Red's nob~l~ in sticking to his job instead of accepting her invitation for him come to Europe for the summer.
I
!
]Mr. R. observed that Radcliffe ,,'us not fond of Europe: "But he is fond of his family" I said. "Oh: he likes his mother" said 1'1r.
R. -"but not me:" I never have been able to make }mr. R. out:
\'le saw Helen Wolcott again, -the came to see us; n. I had from 1-1r.
Wolcott one of the most desperately p9thetic letters I ever read.
The sense of Charlie's loss grows continually greater with me, and the
rose color has faded out of everything. One of the very first thing
I meant to do on getting home Was to go to see him, and it makes my
heart heavy to think that the utmost I can ever do now is to go end
put some flowers on his grave.
As in Italy so also here awe motor and motor and motor. It's fortunate that both D. and I are so fond of it. Here we have one of the finest cars I've ever ridden in; -but it's always a limosine which destroys ::;()toe of the pleasure. Today we've been to St. Albans -8 magnificent Cathedral, the largest, I'm told, in England, and built on the site where the first martyrdom to Christianity took place in England. As eousinT. ~8S Writing for us outside we didn't half see it, but the drive there and back was lovely.
I got your letter, telling of your visit to Kim and that you thought of going to Sonopah with Fred Brown, just before leaving Florence. would that I, too, might go to Sonopah.
The:-Bakers seem to have been very kind about inviting you to meals. I hope you have called spontaneously at least once. If not please do it before we get home. I don't want my rapture at being with you once again marred by finding you've been rude to people who hive been kind to you. Also it will be more in keeping With your self respect
to go by yourself than to be dragged there by the seat of your trot by an irnte aim. Oh Deerest how good it will be to see you again:
God keep you safe. Your loving l"dim.
Monday, May 12, 1913
Bast beloved -Since ay last letter I'v~-been 'so unhappy I
just couldn't bring myself to write. It is nothing that hat h~ppenud
to any of this party, and it's nothing that I feel like writing about;
though I'll tell you the whole story when I get home. 0 blessed word Home:. But the thing has been so constantly in my mind that I've not seen 8ble to enjoy anything.
I dined with Mrs. Bonbright the other evening ne CIRridges. She and Mr. B. live over here most of the time now, and have n place in the counery. They were staying in town for n few days preparatory to sailing for America ("'hich they did on Saturday) for HOvJard' s ,,>adding: He is marrying a Detroit girl named Elizabeth Hodges, Had if she is ve lovely us her picture she must be a Queen indeed. We are invited to tea on ~ednesday to meet Norman Sturgis and his wife! .or rather
they are asked to meet us. The Luckrafts are in town and being awfully nice to us, and so is Lily Sorry. Mrs. Bell is still in America. We've done a lot of motoring through this lovely English country. It's a heavenly time of year to be here, but the weather has been horrid. We motored to Oxford yesterday and on our Way bnc) stopped at Stoke Pages, where Wm. Pell was born, and saw the exquis' Had very cheerful churchyard \-:here Grey '''rate his Elegy. \l'e also . came through Eton and saw scores of Eton boys in their silk hats. Their ends didn't correspond -for almost all of them wore slovenly ~npolished shoes.
D. and I have been to three picture G<!lleries and h<eve seen such hauntinGly lovely thinGs that if it ":even't for my durlinG son and hankerinG to see him, I'd like to Sol}' heve another month just to look at pictures. I must have told you -thouGh I can't remember _ that D and I are GoinG to the York-ihn.ll, as I suppose the lviclcSherry are still at 615, and I hope they'll st8Y theve all summer.
I'll probably write yen one more little note before we sail. Don't forget date and see:lmer -l-ltly 21, Kronprinz \Vilhelm. 's!e onght to 1 on the 28th. Of conrse I don't Kno'" ",'re the r or no t ye n ,.,' eve pI., nni
to meet us, or \,could be able to. Sat I'm going to say "Don't". Every extra person onlycadds to poor Cousin T's confusion of mind, we'll.take the first trnin we can for New Haven. I'll telegrDph ye
the minute we land.
I've had so mueh to trouble me reeently, n. I feel so piffliss, I don't want any flaw in my homeeoming. So if you love your Mis you' be sure to had,'s done the things I've made <". point of your doing (e:; ing on the D--:.tleers, and .,'riting those letters) before I get there.
Goodnight ow..! a mission blessings on Your deck:ar he"d, l"Y love to JU~k and to Wilson. Your loving Nother.
Bast BelovedI learn_that t~c DacSherrys have lefty 615JOrnnge. So Doris and I can go there instead of to the York hail. I a15'0 learn that the Eronprinz Wilhelm ought to reach ~.Y the morning of To es d (~ Y Ely 2 7 Hurrall! :
Bast Love
Your l';o-t.her.
Tuesday, 24 June
On the train from Newport
to I\' e",' linven. Bast beloved
I'm on my way home again,and ohis, I ohink, ends Newl fo:-me till <:lutU:sill. I ohink I net,ter tel t much loniier in my lise ohan Sa turdelY night ,,' i oh ohe se el ing oha t eyery r.1inu te 've shaking : faroher a'\'<Jay from me. And I kno\\' you telt \\lioh me ohe c1dded ,,'oe ijf oh has of ohe game. rate certninly robbed it into us ohis ter
It Was hard to leave Cousin Theodore -he so hated to see me go.
offered me the gardener's cottuGe for the SUI:lmer! Even the presence of Cecile who arrived last evening with Terry, did not seem to console him for my departure. l looked so shocking this morning it sent my heart into my mouth.
I'm afraid it's going to be horribly hot in 1:e'... Haven, but ,,'ith escape before me I suppose I can stand it. I'm longing for your first letter. please give my regards to Mrs. Morris end tell her how much I appreciate her hospitality to you. God bless my boy.
Your loving
11im.
615 Orange Street
::':e\,' l;;,von
30 June, 1913
Bast beloved - It was a joyful surprise to get your letter
from Kansas City, and I hope mine to you from Newport reached you
before you left Denver for Leadville. I got back from Newport
last Tuesday and on Friday went up to The Hill (Cobalt, Conn.) to
spend the night with the Taylors. I had positively promised them a
visit so I had to go. Henry Devereux was,there and we had a nice
old fashioned Colorado time, and the next day they motored me all the way down here, and I gave them inocuous drinks at the L~wn Club before
they returned to The Hill.
Doris and Julia got oss at noon yesterday, and D. said she Kould wire me when ohey arrived at Caseine ohas morning, but no telegram has eome, and I'm so ant:nous I've telegr;)plied llrs. BC!.lte::-to '-"se i! ohey got ohere. Kar Earl has sent role 2n enlv.rgement os oh;! t lo\-ely pietuT'e os D. on horsebaek wioh ohe mountains behand her. It's a perseet beauty and I'm so pleased. I ~,,'ent out to see I:im ohas asternoon ;lnQ he, too, \\'as a vision o:s bee:duty in my eyes. He h;!d just been bnohed and he Was a reddish sluss. He almost ate me up, talking hyste~ie~IIy until he \-;e:es exhous led and :sIopped sIn t on ha s Ist tie tu=y on ohe sloor, ohumping has tail and rolling ohe ','hates os has eyes at me. Is \,''' sind ohe bo~~rding home ~,t Caseine \-,till let us huY,,", }1j_!!'. "'''' pie> going tp_bave ham s~Dt up.
I hope to get oft on Wednesday stopping two days at Springfield (or
rather Blandford near there) with Paige. r.ly accommodations on the Roa t from so span are engaged for the night of the 4th. Co skin, ;';l une \~ill be our simple address. \\'hen you "trite tell me every detail nothing will be too small to interest me. I de hope you'll like it.
Uncle frank and Aunt Lido. want you to stop and make them a visit in Denver on your way home in C2se they are back there :from the East.
I paid the bill at once. God bless my boy and keep him safe.
Your loving I:im
-,
again end spend a week or ten days. Emily is arriving from the off side tomorrow, but she has to go back agnin in November to spend t} winter with Julia.
Your letter telling oe ,~11 your Colcrf~do Springs doings and the pea
you had seen was most interesting. It was revealed to me in n lips of lightening (truly) during a ferocious and ;.ppolling storm one night that I had wholly forgotten to charge you to hunt up M~ggie i Colo. Springs. Hence my costly wire.
My head is feeling so queer I think I must put it to bed. I'm much too old and too important to work the way I do. Plense hurry up an be a mining King so that I mDy be surrounded by vnss~ls and serfs,
well as covered with ropes of pearls.
Doris is having a violent attach of rheumatism in Cnstine. The Buk are taking care of her like the dears they are. I think I'm going start for Gambier Monday, so send your next letter there. And you descending on Mrs. Morris again~ How good people have been to you. hospitality is the Crown of Glory of 'the West -my beloved West. I think Frank & Lisa are in Denver by now. B. sure to find out. find like to have you or!ll on the ;:Stimsons too.
Plense give my regards to Mrs. Morris end tell her I do~'t know how
to God thank bless my her for all boy, she and hers have Your done for you. loving mummy.
615 Orange No... Haven St.
14 Septembe r
Bast beloved -Somethang so dreadful le, s h:.ppenec1 -a Up bear to tell you. Jones, dear Jones killed hamself four nights ago The Reef. He had been having arouble with has her!d end he must gov gone crazy for the time. He shot hamself in the hall outside of ha and the servants found ham in the early morning. I thank it would killed Ctli.".or, Theodore too had he known the whole ar:..:the?:..:t they ham Jones we s very ill and held gone home, and the next day they tan ham there was no hope, -and then that he Was dead. I have few fri anywhere that I would mourn for more. You have no idea the thangs did for me last winter -nobody ever in my life took care of me Tik that, -and ahrays begging to be allowed to do more. And in all dry I have kno\yn few men as worthy of admiration a.nd affection as Jones
It seems ~ long time since I heard from you. I hope nothing is the matter. I have postponed going to Ohio till October.
endless love, Mother.
The Reef Newport, R.I. Oct. 14, 1 Bast beloved -There is nothing to write About here, but I'm ~frnid won't get Roy letters from you unless I send an occnsionnl one to Y and letters to':me now' are food to the starving. The weather h"s be
I
I
1
I
and is simply hideous, so ohat your Uncle is housebound n. we play cards n. dominoes from morning till night, never stopping in ohe evening uneil eleven P.M. The one ohing oh"t keeps me from going CrAZy is ohat I sleep ne night es ohou~h I had been dubbed.
I had a note from Has. Luckn!it yesterday in which she s"ad: "Ispbel will uadoubtedly write me how lascin~ting Roger is that you "ad Doris love him 50."
please take pity on your loving Mis n. write to her.
The Reef No"sport, R. I. 16 October, 1913
Bast heloved . I regret to say ohe t ohe pin 10rBoh Camphell is in my sCllety deposit hox at ohe h"ne end oh;:Je I cannot put my h~'nd on ohe key. You'll just have to tell him ~hout it, end send it to him later unless ohe enclosed permit works. It is possihle ohe men 81 ohe hane can open my hox (it's a new one in oheir new vnults) wiohout my leey. I. ohine ohere are two stickpins.. The one tor Boh is ohe greenyhlue one, not ohe yellow one.
Life drags on here in cloud s ,I ad r"in ,'ad gloom. I love you very much "adhope you iJre well <lad h"ppy. Your loving His.
Sunday Night, Oct. 28, 101; Hotel St. Regis Nero' York
Bast beloved -This is just to tell you ho\-; deO!r' you were on Sunday. Doris spoke 00 it, too. You maJde your house very h"ppy. II you sun possibly Inn<age to get two more tickets to the Princeton B"me (tor which I will pay) I can secure" young m;>n to take MS<lbel :end then I can go with you. Said young man is Chilton Powell, r' sort 00 cnusin of ma"e, an instructor at ColumhjA~ and An awfully njrB fellow. He was dining here east night and I sounded him about. the g~~2, in~~sE I souldget tickets, and he'll be tickled to death to come. Ple"se let me know (Gambier) as soon as you can, whBt the prospects are so that I can let him know officially.
Bast love, darling, from Your l-lim.
Gambier, Ohio Sand;:)Y, 2 Nov. 1913
Bast beloved -YesterdnY in Clevelnnd Mr. ,Inn Nrs. tells spent en hour trYing to make me SAY that I would go to EgYpt with them. I linallY agreed to let them know as soon as I could hear from You. I did not tell them that I would go if You were willing; but I did s"Y that it was matters in connection with You that stood in the wnY 00 mY nccepting their invitation. If You are willing I would like to go. If You are not willing I do not want to-gQ. The re:'son whY I do not
"'i5""""'~-~'-"''"':::-~~i~~2:,:;::.~;O~T~7~~,"':~,::-
'-~'tt;~f~E~:i'f' -;';, ::.;:...~.. -.'ij .
.~:.: '.>':' -'~J:/~~~'~:;):~:;:s.: ...::;~
